
This chapter considers the use of ANT in a study like mine, where we see that meaning is held together, but also see meaning making through the lens of socio-ontology.
Transfer (the negotiation of epistemic objects) happens continuously and sporadically. Boundary objects does not simply work together, but different acts of 'worlding' also co-exist.


Presence as experienced with; Tina's guided presence, Espen and Mathis' casual presence, Hanna's interventionist presence, and in my own role as a substitute. It is impossible to say which one is more real.

My substitute role exemplified the friction between the materialities of education and learning. The map and the book was available to relate through (mediate) - even though my relationship with the students also made a large impact. So our relationship was both loosely structured by us all knowing differences in the mater-of-learn and our abilities to discuss their relevance (make associations visible) according to our own associations and the temporality of the space. Referential knowledge was made just that by the availability of surrounding references (like the wider map, or the students' notes and practice that went along with the text book). The materials that I brought in with me similarly also inhabited a looser function and meaning than implied by Rohel's conception of that which is introduced. Rather, the transferability of the conversation was important - it was to fit with the reference points of progression (calculative devices). The materials both avoided a clear categorization of my work (Lars), apart from the classing of broader practice norms (discuss topic in book, avoid trespassing), at the same time as they demanded me to enact the role of the subject-teacher as planed (discuss 'these' parts of the map - China and India representing Asia). I understood that it was important to observe how these conversations could continue 'at a distance', also in traditional educational practice (a paradox when imagining the essence of the digital as well as evaluation). The conversation is of course a metaphor for a wider set of practices and its co-ordination and alignment, and the ability of students to work and/or act on their own (learn). *Too much conversation is indeed often heavily criticized, which is a key issue for the issue of presence - resulting perhaps in a controversy around creativity.* .... These acts of translation (the mat-of-lear) were questions of translation and interestment. The world map was represented not only by countries but by the natural features that underpinned civilizations and cultures. What I saw then, when these references were handled at a distance, was that fascination built up around the educational materials and not the histories in which they were shaped. Practice was given meaning through the objectification and separation of...
The drawing could not be transfered and interestment did not happen, as it could not be considered 'useful knowledge'.

Hanna clearly showed it as external intervention into ability to be with.
Tina portrayed a more structured use, and talk, of new media.
Espen and Mathis portrayed the casual (and dependent upon) relationship with media in which it did not seem new.




#Co-ordinating presence

Presence is the post-human perspective as we have seen a key component of both knowledge and learning. In this chapter I will discuss how 'presence' emerged as an analytical object and how the co-construction of the analysis developed as a political object, or an arena for representation and negotiation.

There are many ways of using metaphors about learning, classrooms and education.

Presence takes up an important role in Sørensen's argument, in many ways differentiating her account from others. This chapter is about the role presence plays in learning, in classrooms, but also as a researcher and as someone trying to access the professional spaces of teachers (far from being an exclusive research activity).

Here I will explore the role played by evaluation practices in the organization of the school. I try to discriminate between accountancy devices that record and communicate learning-processes through 'immutable' (mobile) inscriptions and processes that afford fluent and communal forms of presence and learning within the performance of the organization (that which is to be measured). By doing so, I want to make distinctions between different approaches to spatiality and their implications on approaches to the temporality of the organization. The chapter will work to contextualize the analysis of accounting devices in education, both in relation to the STS research on education (presented in the last chapter), in relation to my expectations and analytical strategy coming into the research, and in relation to the multiplicity of materialities that circulates within and through the school and school system. The co-ordination of presence is important to develop because accounting devices are made to intervene into and produce spaces differently. I ask how the transnational becomes enacted through different public boundaries - the public being what children are confronted with in the performance of citizenship in the becoming. The enforcement of a transnational ordering is co-produced together with various other spatial configurations, such as the national, regional, local and locational. In the next analytical chapter I want to further distinguish the way accountancy devices differ in relation to the inscriptions they perform, but here I want to give context to the ways that boundaries are drawn up and the way the analytical objects emerge in the first place (Asdal).

Sørensen (2009, p.137) describes how 'humans are enacted in spatial arrangements' and in a sense borrows a *first-person perspective* from critical approaches to the psychosocial (such as Dreier, 1993 and 1999) to reach beyond approaches to learning that view learning on par with teaching. These perspectives are however entirely different, and in the learner's perspective that which in cognitive approach was seen as non-personal, universal mechanisms, rather become activity; changes in personal participation in social context among non-isolated, socially embedded individual practices.

Sørensen's argument have in surprising ways affected research on educational STS (educational as being about the education system and its relationship to wider educational practices and tools). In Fenwick, Edwards and Sawchuk (2011) her argument is presented at the very beginning of the introduction. ANT is still presented as an 'extreme' approach to sociomateriality, as the idea that objects emerge through networks holds no space for wider cultural interpretations. In the preface the wider debate that this book introduces is however presented in relation to other familiar debates (like Knorr Cetina), and here the authors also present some of the limitations of the sociomaterial literature within education. These perspectives are said to have done more for the study of organizations and disperced collective action generally. It is exactly within this area that my analysis is intervening into. Not only am I looking at the organizational aspects of practice, culture, space and materiality/technology, I am looking at how technoscience is done through constellations of knowledge communities. More precisely I am looking at how organizational boundaries are done in the virtual and how these boundaries work on other knowledge objects. I try to take seriously the STS account of informatics and the digital, and trace the social production afforded by this technoscience into the science and technology of education. I divert from Fenwick's account on the basis that I do not trace these forms of knowledge into educational research, as much as I trace them into the school and its bureaucracy. This could also be described as the politics of technology and education, another strand of research...

What this perspective affords me is an account of STS that goes beyond 'ANT' in a sense (who discusses this?), because it looks at infrastructure and standards and not persons...
This difference is reflected in the idea that ANT looks at the micro-connections that create assembledges 'translation' (Fenwick, p.4).


##Teaching as achievements: the difficulty evaluating the classroom
Access: freedom of education: the student
The 'value' of knowing the names.. presence with the students and access among teachers
A different if I was a substitute teacher or an observer/assistant.
...This story in many ways begin as I sit on the bus on my way to the location of the school wishing that I had remembered to study the school's 'facebook' - the thin book that indexed all the persons attending and/or working at the school with pictures (groups and profiles) attached. I had been too busy trying to become familiar with the technical literature on cloud computing (etc.) and education technology to remember to familiarize myself with these names and faces. In some sense I had been convinced that the public nature of the institution would make the transition between the university and the secondary school unhindered. Yet, the fact that also public spaces are regulated by boundaries was quickly becoming more apparent as I was approaching the location.
I was subject to the position that had been negotiated in a complex insider/outsider relationship between the administration and the teachers. The co-ordination of the study was mediated by the organizational structure that administered the entities that was the 'classes'. My familiarity with the organization as a whole had therefore disappeared out of sight, but the public status of my arrival of course depended upon how well I could use my position.
Despite the possible benefits of an early start, such as observing the organization coming to live and as such gain an ability to forge arrangements for where to go and what to see with those who arrived the earliest, I was more attracted to the freedoms in being the ethnographer-student I were and, as Latour said, approach this place with an the eyes of an outsider. Therefore I didn't make too many arrangement, and rather I joined the rest of the students who were riding along on the school buss, perhaps generally rather less aware of how the day ahead would play itself out. Despite hoping to 'go native', as the cliquish has it, I was not hoping to assimilate any one role. I was hoping to see many roles in interaction.
Disentangling an organization: master documents and accounting practices
Public and private conversations...
a process that I hoped would shed light on many of the organizational requirements that I was interested in. I was anxious whether I would be able to observe these discrete and quiet processes, at the time and place when the teachers experience is mixed with evaluation criteria and accounting systems and translated into a grading system. The ethical dimensions of these sensitive processes seemed many and I was not able to structure the observations in such a way that I could proceed without knowing in advance what I was looking for. I was afraid that the result would inadvertently communicate an essence of the group of people, or the student that I would be following through the system. Or, at least, I was afraid that the evidence I would gather would be of a sensitive enough nature for outsiders to be able to gain access to essential information about the abilities of students or the value at which they are assessed. This made it hard for me to describe the space in which I was observing, and for me to communicate how they could plan for and around my presence.

The school was in a period of transition. This was the transition from the school semester to school holiday. The holiday is more than a pause in activity. The transition period that lead up to the holiday by itself took up a significant proportion of the entire semester. I had not chosen the timing for any other reason than the progression of my research. Yet, when I got used to the idea I decided that I wanted to observe the transition period as it was a time in which accountancy practices of various kinds were being co-ordinated. On the other hand, it also a challenge to communicate and make plans.
It took me some time to convince the team that I was communicating with that it was a good time to be following them. In answer to my proposition I met concern with the lack of teaching activity that was going on at this period. After talking among themselves they proposed that I should rather come around when the spring semester started. Ordinary classes was being faced out, which meant that time was being spent among other things in preparation to the yearly Christmas party or in conversations with individual students. These activities could hardly be understood as particularly relevant for a study about education and education technology? When I approached one of team members - a young calm guy I will call David - in a private chat I was told that each of them individually could feel hesitant to speak on behalf of the others. Even though I had an official invitation from the administration I was beginning to notice that my status was in question - not only to them, but to all of us. At first they wanted to fit me into a (teaching) schedule, but the co-ordination of these activities was in dissonance. Apart from their classroom responsibilities they all needed to have their paper work in order, and at the time I felt like my uncertain position represented more paperwork. What I had written to the team via email had up until then had a less practical overtone, but because I was hoping to study their work and teaching in an organizational perspective I knew that designating a 'letter of informed consent' only to the parents of the children would portray a narrow idea of what I was doing. The letter became an important point of reference and in some ways a channel of communication between the team and I. In the letter my theoretical aim of observing how teachers positioned themselves in a changing information infrastructure had been narrowed down into an idea of looking above the shoulders of students and teachers and trying to figure out how information became relevant in accountancy practices. This also meant that the information could of course also become more sensitive than when initially observed as classroom activity. The idea that I would 'watch information circulate between them' went from being a theoretical ideal to become an practical description of what was necessary to observe educational technology in action in a digital workplace; a description that could not but convey an idea of a system that transformed learning into categories that it attached to names.

The reason why I had gotten on the bus in the first place was therefore because one of the team members, a guy that I will call David, suggested that finalizing and sending the letter out would be an opportunity to come together and discuss the conditions for my participatory study. The issue of having to define the purpose of my presence was largely resolved in the conversation with David the first day, though the peculiarity of the experience in some ways persisted. What the letter saw too convey was the way my responsibilities as the observer in the study would be defined. By attending to the complex issue of consent among children and their respective parents I had designated these aims of mine to a time and a place - namely the classroom. My participatory role was framed as being an assistant to the teacher in the classroom while I would follow what I observed there in the routines of the teacher elsewhere. Furthermore, David helped me effectively communicate with the parents by pointing out in the email and letter that they would be able to contact me directly if they should have any questions or issues. I had originally wanted to give responsibility for answering questions to the team-members, the administration and my supervisor in that respective order, but David removed the team-members from their given position order and replaced it with my as the researcher. By positioning me in direct order under the school administration and university I became an independent participant in the classroom. For example, my letterhead, with the logo of the University of Oslo on it, was one of the things that seemed to have had the effect of portraying my research in an light of authority. David commented on the effect the letterhead, and together with the official clearance from the Norwegian Center for Research-data (NSD) these documents had in many ways proved my position within the educational establishment. This last point is a curious one because my position within the education establishment was both different and similar to those in the teaching establishment. My role as an observer in the classroom is not unusual in the education system, as every teacher student is designated to observe classroom activities and participate in these teaching activities as part of their education. n addition to these practice periods many of the teachers was adding further credits to educational at institutions like the University of Oslo. Together with the logo, my talk about data, the ethics of sensitive information and a reference to the NSD nevertheless set the parameters for a study of the school from the outside, and it was within these parameters of that the idea of the essence of an information system became 'problematized'. Far from always did I approach the situations that I observed within these parameters. The official looking letter and letter head was authoritative looking because it appeared to challenge the institution, at least on an organizational level. The organizational challenge was diverted by a switching of context. The ethical challenges of gaining informed consent was lessoned by the fact that I knew the people and the institution well enough to be able to negotiate my role on the terms of a division of labor. I could access the school and the (otherwise of bounds) office spaces by being known as a teacher.

When I accessed these spaces I was at once confronted with well meaning assumptions about the purpose of my visit. The stressful circumstances of the period had been accompanied by a wave of absent staff, due to illness or otherwise. If not assuming I was there to earn some extra cash people asked whether I busy doing my practical pedagogical education. There was simply too many staff to completely resolve the confusion, but as long as I was an assumed part of the community I was able to move around relatively freely. The persons I did not know approached me differently. Even though it was not unnatural to regard me as 'substitute' under the circumstances a more precise account of the spaces in which I was to access was of importance. Each morning that I entered the building that this enstranged relationship with the different spaces - in which I was more or less 'welcome' - had effects on my ability to study the materialities of the school.


##Organizing rooms and their boundaries

Entering the school I stopped and considered whether to knock on the doors of the administration, but walked straight into the teachers' lounge. The 'common' area was, in many ways, where access beyond the front door was negotiated. It was here that I would meet the staff from the administration, as they actively distribute, or make up for, the available tasks among i.e. vacant staff. The space was one of the largest open spaces in the building. Almost as large as the students' canteen, though smaller than the gymnastics hall. Every morning a few of the teachers tried to make time in their schedule to gather for a cup of coffee in the sofas and coffee tables. The interior had a standard Norwegian bureaucratic design, built in bright wood and instilled with a norm of bringing and eating one's sandwich over the short but collective lunch break. Perhaps the design built upon the spatial organizations that historically shaped the school, in which teachers didn't have any office spaces or collective work areas, apart from the classroom. Others didn't make the same effort to take part in the joy and safety of this kind of group atmosphere. The contrast was stark between the assembly around the coffee tables and those hurrying past to have the plans and resources in order for the day ahead. These staff ventured between the copying- and learning materials-rooms, that lay closer to the administration's offices, and the office spaces that lay on the other side of the common area. No matter how they valued the collective presence, all the teachers and assistants however were bound to the team-rooms in which the teams sat in rows facing their desks, cabinets and shelfs. The space was in reality one large room, divided up in sections by class walls and the tall shelfs. These sections was connected by a hallway lined with more shelfs. While the materials that filled the walls inside the team-room sections belonged to the individual teachers (either by virtue of a temporary schema or private ownership) the books and folders that lined the walls outside were free to use by everyone. Another large room right next to the office space was similarly lined with more such materials, but that otherwise was empty and was said to be used by personnel who wanted some peace and quiet. These spaces bore similarity with the public library that lay just around the corner, except from the fact that they seemed to be almost completely out of use. What was readily in use, on the other hand, was the printer (a smaller than the one in the copy room).

During these hours my position as researcher and/or substitute teacher/assistant would vary depending on the agecement that these spaces afforded. The routine that I begun on the first day of my arrival at the location stuck. Since there were so many activities that was being simultaneously performed, planned and talked about I found it easier to assess opportunities in running order, or as they appeared. Like the first day, when I met David at his office, I sat down to discuss the way my research goals were developing and how they overlapped with the organization and its various activities in the day ahead. These conversations were essential, both in terms of the negotiation of the research object as well as a situation of ethnographic observation. On the other hand, I could also suddenly be pulled out of the role as a researcher and be told to substitute for some vacant teacher. Certain members of the administration made a routine out of walking between the office sections and the common areas in these first couple of hours of the workday, catching personnel at available moments, in the office, the sofas, or in transit. These administrators had the title of supervisors, and although they rarely intervened directly into the work of the personnel (i.e. those enjoying their coffees) their position clearly associated with the organization of plans and learning resources. If the teacher had not been able to show up for work it could take the supervisor a few minutes of walking around looking for available learning resources of the right kind and instructional sheets, if there were any (otherwise simply asked students about their work-schedule). The personal collections of each teacher was then turned into a public repository for the benefit of the organization. Over time such misalignments could be difficult to plan around, because the length and organizational (temporal) implications of these substitutes varied greatly.

During this time of the day the organization was in many senses being assembled in different ways. Different groups of students go into different rooms, and in intervals of 45 minutes that follow almost no one are to be seen in these hallways. After the various groups have been assembled and dispersed another tempo sets in. Its a time of peace and quite when it seems easy for anyone to roam around alone, but also a period in which these public spaces are restricted and in which the presence of strangers could be alarming. Approaching the materialities of education on an institution level is therefore not unproblematic, which already had begun to become apparent through the way my virtual presence in the communication networks quickly could entangle with different representations of authority and accountability that was reflected in these rooms and spaces. I could knock on different doors. Yet there was a definite danger of trespassing or disturb by virtue of the undeserved attention. I had to approach their materialities in different ways according to different contexts, and it was in these ways that the materialities themselves created my research space. Moreover, it was this way that these spaces was associated to different aspects of the organization, and to the subjective experiences of learners and of observers.

Apart from the teachers' lounge and the gymnastics hall most of the rooms in the building are centered around a single hallway which they connect to through a single door. The hallway stretches throughout the building and connect all its corners. The habits that these rooms enclose are therefore both controlled by the public spaces that surround and connect them, as well as the teachers and administrators who order who can enter into and leave these spaces at any one point. This seem to be a normal architectural feature of school buildings, even though the use of these common spaces vary greatly. The newest architectural school designs I have seen for example feature these spaces prominently as open public areas that the different groupings are clustered around. Consequently the rooms are clustered around assemblages that co-produce the 'classes' in which inhabit the rooms. One morning that I arrived a little after classes had begun I experienced meeting an arts teacher and an supervisor.



Roehl used the metaphor of the 'presentation' of knowledge objects in the classroom, in which he himself was included.
Sørensen uses the idea of the ... the 'trail of strength' that the object had to endure.
...(creativity author) approaches this point differently..


There are furthermore different ways of using metaphors about the classroom. It could be useful to think of it in terms of a ship, thinking of the different tasks that everybody has. Yet, as ... explains it might.. be better to think of the classroom as a form of spaces: as 'organized organizements'...
The classroom was over the time that I was present organized in many different ways..
I would like to follow Law in saying that... care

-gaining the trust of students was a product of other factors too. age difference: normal discontinuity in the professional life and pupil-students, demand that presence is negotiated
-standing in awekward situations or choosing what to recognize..

Studying the materialities of education beyond the 'educational contexts' of the classroom means going beyond the classroom experiences of the closed door that enacts the 'four walls' and the tables aligned in view of the blackboard. Rohel is simply saying that we should study practice and pay less attention to action (in a classical ANT sense). The walls of the classrooms are regions that are filled with materials that enact these spaces differently depending on the forms of presence and forms of knowledge.
I want to show that these are more than simply practices of readiness-at-hand. They are furthermore also more than a construction of the complex of publishers etc. - the classic ANT adapted by Fenwick...
This does not make clear how these are ontological practices. It implicitly assumes different epistemologies of knowledge production...
I want to make clear how presence is co-ordinated and mediated by the educational technologies that both teachers and myself partake in the construction off.

It is no reason to think that my presence alter these practices radically. But it was nevertheless clear that the way the teacher introduced me was important.
-Roehl's account of the presentation of things: objects and a researcher.
-People and objects are introduced and constructed into subject-oriented discourse like Rohel says, but the featuring of new people is more frequent than might be expected: not only because substitutes like myself have to depend upon established roles and accountancy practices that keep pupils to try to jump between classrooms, but actors like assistants, music or movies play important roles.
Yet, like in any house, the entire room is more actively used: I was presented through a game in which I was not so much a subject as a participant on equal footing with students.





###The 'subject-room'

To think of the materialities of the class-room as fixed would be a gross oversimplification.
The institutional setting that in some ways could disappear in the 'functioning classroom' is very much apart of the conscious organization. It is part of the wider disciplinary apparatus (Foucault).
Authority as an materiality of bodies: 'Everybody rise'
ROS: Wallposters and the democratic ethics of law: international law and classroom law
- wallposters was in this light communal projects.
More than simply representational authority: classrooms were hectic and good teachers could make jokes about the formalities of demands.

-Teacher's also learn ideas about social construction and for instance the Deweyan account of 'learning by doing' is regularly enacted through divisions between groups in which one try to extend the semiotic value of what is discussed into the experiences of critical discussion.
-Semiotic reistance is met, but the division could be used to make aware of the learning as an object.

As 'subject-rooms' these spaces does more than construct knowledge.
-'Class' rooms can define groups and identities, through alliances and far larger normativities.
The wall-posters could as such be seen as actual law..
But instead of normatively connected to the outside it could also be seen as 'object-institutions' in a more strict socio-material sense:
-The room also enacts a narrative based on a master-document, but which also translates such graphical artifacts up onto i.e. the blackboard.
-In the classroom these masterdocuments could play a far greater role than what is recognized through the idea of representational knowledge, or i.e. the book alone. The book affords a common temporality (Sørensen), but their narratives can be transformed onto i.e. the blackboard in many different ways. And if the students does not adhere to the same presence things change dramatically..


###The group rooms and hallways
To really appreciate how these subject-rooms does what is known as 'organizing organizement' one have to appreciate the way classrooms organize boundaries.
My concern with observing accountancy practices was for example restricted by my ability to observe synchronized relationships between humans and non-humans in the multiplicity of these spaces. Both tests and 'special education' programs was enacted through personal relationships, either between teachers and students, or between special needs teachers and students.
Tests were synchronizing groups, and special needs was synchronizing individual abilities.
I focused somewhat exclusively on teaching practices within classrooms.
One things is the fact the classroom were enacted as spaces in which master documents developed into representational narratives.
But beyond that ...





###Beyond the class-room
The science room and the art room both seemed to project meaning back onto the activities in the class-room.

Interventions into hallway life
Intervening into my study - breakdown or construction?
co-construction of technical normativity: the notebook and the microscope
Different materialities and the cellular model: semiotics and the virtual object - behind glass and in the projector
Fluent discipline: interobjectivity and interactivity.






This fits both with Star's work on classing and the active work of negotiations in organizations...

It would be naive to think that I could observe the classroom in the same way one could study the history of shipping: as a structured accountancy practices that flow over into the organization of society at large.
I do want to keep in mind that these are bureaucracies and public spaces that I was able to enter.
Yet, one needs to be more 'anthropological distance', to the way different material practices mediates ones presence.
In Hull's case graphical artifacts did this, and for me the kinds of texts and/or learning materials that was produced had similar effects. In a sense I was hoping to observe 'classing' activities such as tests, but these forms of activities were controlled and boundaries were drawn. It it was my wish to witness a test I would probably be able to do so, but it was the fact that only the teacher would be able to witness what was being produced that made it irrelevant, both in my and in the teacher's mind.

Both Sørensen and Rohel gives attention to the fact that it was the material-temporality of the class-room that made the knowledge produced in class durable. I want to follow Asdal, who does similar work to Hull, in asking where these categories of knowledge comes from in the first place. Asdal does this through historical work, and Hull by following the circulation of documents and seeing the actions of government not as institutionally bound, but as historically contextualized in India. I too position my research within a more historiographically sensitive context. It is significant that the study happens in the outskirts of Oslo, Norway, for several reasons; the level of infrastructural investments and economic overflow (economic externalities in the language of economics), the available workforce, and the forms and culture of governance that I am interested in. On the other hand, I am not able to dig through the archives of the organization in question in search for the way issues travel, or the master-documents have been handled, like Hull and Asdal. Neither am I able to witness the microprocessing of facts like in Latour's laboratory studies, or the moving of pieces of paper in acts of information processing, like Suchman.

I depend on a general understanding of the processes at hand. In a sense I am more dependent upon the sociology of the transactions going on. Because I wanted to know how these forms of representational knowledge and the practices that surrounded them could be shaped by 'calculative devices' - in the form of new technologies as well as wider systems of circulation and accounting - I had to think in the lines of sociology and the interestment that was happening. It was this way that I began to think about computers as inhabiting imaginiaries of the enlightened body, but I the essentialist ideas that lay inherent in these ideas of calculation and their systemic effect was also quickly dismissed.

One example that demonstrates this is the store of my first encounter with the classroom. In my first half an hour of being at the school a teacher intervened in my study and showed me the situation in her classroom. In many ways she knew exactly what I was looking for. She took me to the science room and explained to me the story of a technological situation in which large investments were standing idle. I however took notice of the computer that all the pupils had brought along and how the contract that gave these students the right to carry these devices was effecting the use of the online system. The situation had effect on the relationship with the white-board, but these were rather underwhelming as the teacher cared to show. In what followed a conversation however also unfolded in which we discussed these technologies. Again the opinions of the literature was repeated, but disagreements within the group was also downplayed and the changes that was happening was already being spoken off as established practice. These were glimpses of failure, but they were also an ongoing process of change. I was the only conversation that I had directly about these issues with an entire class, which underscores the point of the group practice. The conversation with the group however also taught me that I could not so easily trace it back to one system. It was the movement of these devices and their attachments that was important. In the rest of the class I however witnessed that the computer featured into many of the practices that I observed.
