
This chapter discusses governance practices and 'political technologies'. How is management done through the reproduction of document-genres in the digital?

The digital text book is a good example of the way digital governance reforms structure a subject and 'does' continuity. However, these document practices has always also been shaped by non-semiotic practices and their relationships with other genres of textual and semiotic practice.

In the previous chapter we saw that the autonomy of teachers, students and the materialities of learning were performed and contextualized in a local situation, which helped to establish a necessary distance between formal knowledge - out there - and the 'situatedness' of pedagogic theory. We saw that these spaces was being intervened into by research upon educational research. This chapter delves further into the way technopedagogy is shaped by such a governance model, as well as the limits to governance and the state apparatus. It also discusses how we are to understand continuity within accountancy practice and devices. We have seen that new educational practices is blurring the boundaries between digital information technologies and conventional forms of educational media. At the same time new forms of separation is being enacted, and search is 















Attachment: All the people that welcomed me back commented on the attachments
I joined the others in the spaces in which they were able to partake in the form of presence that negotiated their competence.

Personnel is engaging in a market in which competences are fresh products they seek to circulate, and to enmesh in relationships of fruitful labor, and add on to their professional repertoire.
**I want to study the materiality of learning but is insure of how to follow these essentialist ideas. Like the other teacher's I am trying to figure out how to have the kind of presence with learners that gives me the competence to judge these materialities of learning**


To be able to conduct experiments in the science-room and work on creative projects, as well as when doing gymnastics the hourly slots could get moved around, and organize differently.




approaching these challenges on an institution level - through official communication channels - made apparent how quickly information technologies could entangle the analytical object in institutional underdetermined issues, such as educational research and professional training.

It was not only difficult for me to get access to the online platforms and information.
Like Noortje Marres [-@marres2015map] points out, the idea of 'bias' is not only an issue for those researching *digital* knowledge and information.
 but it becomes drawn upon as a 'crisis' because of the sensitivity that is afforded by digital devices to 'the context' in which information appear.
increased in association with 'a risky object' worthy of public scrutiny.



##Substitute and observer

Anonymity in the office: in-between persons
The ecology of the hallway
'feedback': Knowing one's category - new temporality
The office space: overhearing the sharing of stories
-giving categories meaning
-giving learning-aims meaning


##A new beginning
Learning about anxiety: demarcating pedagogy




...
The book affords a common temporality (Sørensen), but their narratives can be transformed onto i.e. the blackboard in many different ways. If the students does not adhere to the same presence things change dramatically..
the classroom were enacted as spaces in which master documents developed into representational narratives.
Moreover though, through logistical technologies these narratives could develop into situations of competition between classrooms.

This example could be extended and one could look at how, in Mathis' class, it did not matter that there was no technology there was still many forms of tasks the math student had to deal with. The example that rohel makes about the computer that takes away from the maths-task is therefore normative in the sense of what is regarded as maths. It does make a good point about the fact that the mess of the situation - in our example - makes pupil-students dependent upon the representational knowledge on the blackboard and in the conversation. Yet, seeing these activities in the light of wider accountancy practices, and the enactment of mobility, these symbols are made to live lives as autonomous objects. Learning maths is in this way constructed as a step-by-step process by virtue of an educational practice in which I am accredited with knowing them, a process in which I am made to participate in a variety of technologies. Rather than saying that the computer enacted the maths as if focusing on the practice of maths, it is more appropriate to say that the these small tools acted as independent objects. The difference is first that they become mass-produced for a reason.
Second as accountable actors they could be portrayed very differently.

##The maths seminar
Here these numbers were seen in the light of a different ontology. An approach in which they were seen themselves through the lens of a translation process and acted out through a completely different structure. They are not mass-produced.
