


#Chapter 1 - **the computer as agent** Studying networks and reconfigurations of the materiality of learning - the school computer and its mobility within socio-technical spaces

In this chapter I try to ask some fundamental questions about the spaces in which I have been observing. More than just asking what the materialities of learning are, I ask what is done with these materialities at this location and how their mobility is related with the work and care in the organization and in relation to its beneficiaries beyond the organization, widely understood as its market.
**Dewey talks about this as their service and ideas of a service market and service science is quickly intermixed with bureaucracy and citiezenship. How did then consumerism enter the picture?**
Conversations are being had about the school system, about rights and competences that adhere to practices, management and reforms in this system.

In a sense, I was interested in exploring the metaphors of flow. *Law's critique of classic ANT* The movement of objects, in, out and between spatial and temporal spaces. I hoped to study the school not simply as one location, but as an ecology of spaces existing within and circulating through the dimensions of this set of locations. The object of my study was perhaps most easily described by the physical properties of the building, but my this story start as I sit on the buss. In transit on my way through the networks that make up the public transportation infrastructure of the region. I start off by considering how my own position is negotiated in a complex insider/outsider relationship that goes from a general investigation into a more context specific analysis, 'co-produced'(?) in many ways. I ask how these spaces are manifested as public and/or private in the transition between these spaces, and what ... I meet in my negotations of access into these different spaces - when and where. This starting point is of course not completely random in the narrative of this story either. I was already interested in the temporality of a teacher's working life, having having experienced the extremes differences between the flows of a student's self-management.. and the high levels of responsibility in the life of a teacher. Moreover, the issue had become *the* central issue of the public controversy that was triggered by the teacher strike.


#Arriving and sorting myself out
Being used to a more self-managed life-style of a full-time student I also notice how I perhaps am also resisting the routine of the workday, and its early start, in some ways. Despite the possible benefits of an early start, such as observing the organization coming to live and as such gain an ability to forge arrangements for where to go and what to see with those who arrived the earliest, I was more attracted to the freedoms in being the ethnographer-student I were and, as Latour said, approach this place with an the eyes of an outsider. Therefore I didn't make too many arrangement, and rather I joined the rest of the students who were riding along on the school buss, perhaps generally rather less aware of how the day ahead would play itself out. Despite hoping to 'go native' as the cliquish has it I was not hoping to assimilate any one role. I was hoping to see many roles in interaction.

I could knock on different doors. Yet I too feel an urge to avoid trespassing in these hours.
Different groups of students go into different rooms, and in intervals of 45 minutes almost no one are to be seen in these hallways. Its a time of peace and quite when it seems easy for anyone to roam around alone, but also a restless. I already know how to navigate my way through most of the rooms.



Before finding out where I was going to go I just aimed at having a spot at the team-room.

Personnel is engaging in a market in which competences are fresh products they seek to circulate, and to enmesh in relationships of fruitful labor, and add on to their professional repertoire.
**I want to study the materiality of learning but is insure of how to follow these essentialist ideas. Like the other teacher's I am trying to figure out how to have the kind of presence with learners that gives me the competence to judge these materialities of learning**

*Might it be better to start off following the people after all? I might rather start in the hallway and look at the confusing nature of my ethnography and my experiences of the locality of products before I start to argue for an emerging sensitivity (actual and not theoretical - that came early) towards the role of the computer as a physical objects. By doing this I bring forth debates about the management and accountancy practices within creative processes in the school system (a Latourian accuracy about where materials travel) and I am more honest about my role as a participant observer - seeing that I might be able to tell this story with an honest account of how the computer emerged indirectly through encounters with other teachers' classes (substitute teacher) and actually being brought (as an intervention of its own) into the science classroom. This could also make me more acutely aware of the aesthetic work done by teachers/classes etc and their processing of different emotions through the freedom of presence and not, as I had believed, through dealing with psychological-social constructs as 'subjects' of a study-practice directly (the beginning of a theory of externalizing phenomena - as criticized by Steiner educators). The creative element is not then an effect of the technological debate, but rather an management of materialities of learning. The computer is similarly understood in terms of the freedoms that the teacher supervises. The kid who uses the computer 'in a mistaken fashion' or wrongly must be disciplined. It is through these observations that I found the search function to be so meaningful, giving context to the claims that the role of the teacher is now to facilitate the acquirement of the competences and skills necessary to do such search queries. If we were to presume that all the information could be found through such simple Google searches (no layering and/or conditioning factors of databases) what are the circumstances that qualified these individuals or groups to meet the conditions of these search-practices. Classroom fluidity - such as those materialities facilitated playing, listening to or playing music - require context to make sense culturally. These could be described as contexts of 'gaming', through several of these social dimensions: the quiz game, the logistics of a flipped classroom in the group context, and the analytical parallel between the music listened to as an award and the fluidity of the game in Sørensen's account. However, these games in many ways failed, and had to be compensated for through the added presence of the teacher. The groups could not find meaningful and/or fun descriptions of Christmas traditions where the website authors/editors hadn't gathered such a list themselves. The differences between traditions connected through these associations were just not markable to an untrained eye. We could also say that the boundaries between these categories were unstable, and could easily be contested, despite the fact that I sometimes insisted that they were in fact there and would be fun to experience later on, just by virtue of their efforts at being in someone else's role - putting one-selves out there/on the line. The teacher's failed at gaming these groups to leave their group/tribe identities behind, while also failing at gaming the search devices.*

#chapter2
**In chapter two we see how these relationships become further engulfed in practices of new logistical technologies and accountancy devices as categories of competence is hardened by the way they individually are now pushed to choose too sign onto 'open' vacant slots in the schedule ahead of time, but are only able to do so if and when they have earned the competence level.**
Their histories are not just ordered through these logistical systems, but these histories also surround these practices of accounting for competence in the school system. Not only does the system put checks upon the school's ability to allocate these 'human resources' (HR) according to the statues of the law, but the 'public' administrators at the school is also entangled in these histories in new ways. He or she now also gains a new administrative role in the system as she/he literally is removed from parts of the process now mediated by a more autonomous technology-teacher relationship. Still, one should not presume the administrator to simply sit back and watch the technology change the work-practices of the organization. As has been strongly argued for in the sociology of technology as well as political economy traditions these technologies and their materialities add up to more than their economic functions alone. As ... argue the economizing purpose of such developments is fruitfully understood as socially embedded when we observe how new noramtivities are performed. The administrators, separated from the teachers - through their positions in the hierarchy of management and knowledge management system, as well as the adjacent and much written about spatial and sociological dimensions of their separated office spaces - nevertheless intermingle with the teachers and cross these categorical boundaries routinely as they jump in and out of their administrative role. In fact, I was told in conversation about the new style of management that this used to be, and by virtue of the context of the conversation still was, a key trait of a good principal. I remember how the older men of the last generation of teachers used to measure the competence of the principal by the amount of time they were able to spend in the classroom, observing the teachers in practice. These normative and discursive practices changed somewhat over the years with the circulation of staff, but proximity with pedagogic practices among the management remained a focus point among staff and especially the formalities of the principals conversation as a valuation practice. Nevertheless, despite infrequent formal conversations and training - acceptance of stories/observations, and orderings, of issues as negotiations of narrative - much negotiation was clearly done in the hallway, as the administrator found the people for a job and oversaw transitions of responsibility by finding the material that would give a script to the structure of the classroom-learning material and the curriculum. Moreover, the administrator preserved the role to define who would be able to sign up to different slots in the new system, or who perhaps could be exempt. This was to be reserved for occasions in which the system was not clear about how to solve a challenge, but it was really subject to the system of responsibility in which had been negotiated. Lastly, the difficulty of the work of the administrator was recognized as very hard.



I ask whether the computer is a single device or whether it should be understood to consist of other objects and inherent ontologies. *the inherent normativity is subject to much study*

In the first empirical chapter I start off laying out the premises of how to follow objects that are tangled into networks of digital and non-digital infrastructure and its challenges. The object that I follow is the school computer and the transfer of ownership that is happening in the networked technologies that is surrounding it as it is becoming a mobile device that to an ever larger degree is attached to student bodies. I am making a comparison with the kinds of wearable augmentations described by Viseu and Suchman (-@viseu_wearable_2010) and use this comparison to assess what impact the 'imaginaries of informed bodies' that is associated with so called 'one-to-one' investment programs are having on the ecology of materialities of learning at large. I am reflexively assessing how this concept carries itself, or *'floats'*, when we look at the boundaries surrounding the limited spaces within which the computers follow the student and interacts within the ecology of materialities of learning resources. This way I hope to ask whether 'shifting relations in shaping good care' at the school I visited could and/or should be studied through these devices, as they are hoped to mediate a reform towards a framework for self-regulated learning and, more indirectly, life-long-learning. The question is one that I argue opens up a debate around how to study the digital and, more specifically, how devices feature into our way of studying algorithms and algorithmic life.

I follow the computer as it travels through the rooms of the school and how it interacts with the different materialities that mediates the purpose and use of these spaces. These rooms are not always separated physically as much as they are separated relationally, through the agency given actors within these spaces at different times of the day and of the year. The events that I observe does therefore not happen in chronological order, but are developed as analytical constructs through my journey as a participant observer at the school. They are typologies described within different situations of work within the organization. Neither is it an exhaustive list of situations across the organization. I follow the journey of the computer as a narrative told through my experiences as a teacher and a observer. Adopting the teacher's role and/or following/observing teachers is both a theoretically and methodologically significant choice as it tells a story of some of the most important events in the life of a student at a Norwegian secondary school through the mediating role of a caretaker and an organizer. Theoretically it highlights the changing circumstances of care practices. It allows me to characterize some of the imaginaries that teachers encounters and negotiates within the 'experimental systems' that is being developed on the location. The role allows me to deal with the complex matter of how best to study 'care for the algorithm/database' in a methodologically minimalist fashion, or what Sørensen (-@sorensen_materiality_2009) defines theoretically simply as a methodological approach. I take part in the 'experimental system' and study these actors as they negotiate, thinker with and resist the imaginaries brought down by the management through their strategies of implementation of devices in the larger educational infrastructure. By characterizing the journey of one of the devices that is most prominent in the strategic push towards the digitalization of education, the computer, I outline some of situations in which teachers work to form their own strategies for how to negotiate the computer's position among their professional tools, and the framework of theoretical technologies and documentary practices that I will further look into in chapter two.

Throughout the thesis these situations will feature into the various challenges that are presented as my 'colleges' and I work to separate and make distinct the normativities and materialities of these spaces and the routines and networks that bind them meaningfully together. Moreover, in this chapter I outline how I as a student/researcher is describing, and intervening in, a pathway interlinking the university and the school system. I observe how the premises for what defines the good teacher, and equally my own critical analysis of some of the imaginaries of these new technologies, is shaped in an encounter with the materialities that works as a boundary between the organization's locality and the students' mobility. I tell the story of how I transition between the university and a former workplace. These experiences works to give meaning and weight to my observations as an ethnographer of the material politics of work by allowing me to describe the continuation, alteration and discontinuation of different trajectories and the complexity of the insider/outsider experience. But moreover, it allows me to reflect upon and 're-scribe' how my own relationship to the materialities of the school stretch back in time and how I as a teacher was affected by the double role as adults and former students. This is the story of the methdological challenge of seeing the school system through fresh eyes of the observer, but also the challenge of describing honestly and reflexively how I meant to put a theoretical framework to the test without knowing in advance what trails or what situations my investigation was going to encounter.

**Estrid Sørensen have taken the multi-sitedness and/or multidimensional(socio-techinical) of such materialities seriously in her analysis of the socio-material forms an spaces of the classroom. Her research unfolded from the end of the 90s to the end of the 2000s and according to her own account her interest begun in questions of educational practices in cyberspace and the possible semiotic significance of hypertext therein. Constructing a program called Femdedit.. Although she hoped to do theoretical work within the bounds of the developmental practice of her own team of programmers and the two schools they had allied themselves with the research led her on to considering the theoretisation of educational technologyh more general.
Simply put, this was because the 'epistemological object' that was the product of their research and development (R&D) efforts and their 'experimental system' was subject to 'trials of strength' within the bounds of the school and educational practice.**



##Empiri:
I encounter the computer on my first day.



#Chapter 3 - **the network as agecement** the interface of a knowledge management system and its reform
*Encountering the computer in a different way: as an obsticle for accessing the practices of the teachers, the programs in the information infrastructure, and as a means of communicating with the school and negotiating my insider/outsider position. It quickly becomes clear that gaining access to and learning how to study these networks would become central to my study. I both need to learn about the architecture of the system and figure out how to narrow down my search to a few documents*
**the process could lead me to documents intervening into practice at the end of the chapter: Studying the so called co-ordination part of convergence (callon) I begin to see that the rules that were implemented (to integrate information system) came in the effort to "process of ‘organising imputation and limiting the number of transactions that can be easily stabilized’" (notes from Murakami and Graham)

'The difference and tension between group and network is essential in the performance of the experimental setting. These dynamics play into the 'management accounting' practices and the development of IIS. They both allow for alliances (i.e. between topical interestments - teachers, kids and a vision of 'Science and Technology' in society), but they also lead to treason, as the group becomes less relevant (i.e. harsher social climate). These aspects are overlooked by most who monitors the uptake of innovations in organizations without an advanced idea of institutionalism, including the businesses/bureaucracy itself... I see the issue mentioned above as something that must be understood through its convergence with the 'group'  - the organization - in context of the networks that institutionalizes - in practices of interestment (enforcement as well as 'internal logic' of autonomous tasks)' (my notes from 'teaching crowds')

I develop a strategy of following these negotiations of as part of a wider political economic process and tries to see the devices in their emerging context as knowledge-objects and part of a wider knowledge base and knowledge management system. Having characterized the journey of the school-computer through the bounded process of producing learner according to the measures of care that is taken along encounters with the teacher I follow these knowledge devices into the circulation around another set of spaces. Now I've only followed teachers in their interactions with students, enacting their role in the regulation of space among the subject- and inter-subject-rooms. I now begin to follow these knowledge-objects through the professional spaces that define their role according to their position within this production process. Here I observe how their theoretical technologies develop according to the mechanisms that manages the objects and prescribes technical standards(¤) that we see is intervening into the relations shaping good care. These are mechanisms intervening in the governance of center-periphery relations in the school system, and I follow the personnel as they try to negotiate between these scales and how they themselves are involved, more or less volunteer, in different publics. These publics bring with them their own versions of mobility, or 'care at a distance', and it is in these forums that the economizing ethics of standardized-flexibility emerge as explicit and the potential interestment of the role of these technologies in the enactment of vertical-communication/innovation platforms is observed.

These valuation practices are seen in light of boundary work that is happening as different knowledge cultures try to adjust to give meaning to the way a new set of technologies is re-assigning responsibilities. In other words they support a certain set of normativities surrounding the circulation of these devices. The networked nature of the knowledge objects are valuated in congruence with their ability to negotiate and redirect tensions in the classroom, as observed in chapter one, but we now see that they furthermore are valued according to practices of disciplining among the different staff. We are forced to see how these objects does not simply arrive as ready technologies that are to be put into use through the division of responsibilities according to their installment and maintenance. They are continuously re-implemented and re-developed through acts of improvisation. Despite the smart-status they work much the same way as education technology in general, by virtue of the fluid and referential spaces they intervene into. **the smart-board** Nevertheless their high-tech status gains significence through the networks they are meant to intervene in. Rather than being simply products they are in many ways services defined within the network they are installed into. They are implemented in an effort to change the accounting devices that defines the mobility of teachers. Now, as we have seen, teachers work locally and in networks, and their mobility and their ability to collaborate (on plans and measures of equity) is defined within the sharing standards within this network
**Here I have now looked at the teachers - next we look at the administration?**


I develop the idea of the sharing standards
 Then I develop the idea of accounting devices.


Rom and Rhode (2007)
 "An IIS consists of several components. An example of a component of the IIS is the ERP system... "

I am now tired of reading and will try to make sense of it. From reading about IIS I moved on to look further in to Enterprice Resource Planing systems and their integration in business intelligence and management practices. In this chapter and the next I want to consider how openness is done in the operating system. I will want to turn to the issues that makes the adoption of common standards problematic, and its history within the computer industries. I want to start to explain how the introduction of ERPs intervene into the (I)IS and how it valuates the integration process as a common project among actors with 'differing intentions'.

#Chapter 3 - **the STS-lenses and center-periphery descriptions of interestment-weakness as state-market interventions** following the co-creation of algorithmic technology
*Here I try to map the different actors that binds together and does the interestment in the architecture. This is a story of how I manage to follow the actors and study the organizational ecology that makes the system through disperse interviews and online searches that investigates the interlinkages between market the market actors and agecements that I encounter and general trends in education and education technology. This search stretches back in time and overlaps with many other interests. Moreover, it is also a story of how I learn to interpret the politics of functionality and openness in the system through a historical-STS lens, while struggling to understand, locate and interpret the mechanisms that bind these systems together. I tell a story of my encounter with STS

 How I am faced by the dilemma of learning how to deal with the uncertainty of how to study the 'infrastructurement' (design) of these systems simultaneously endeavors/achievements

document-materialities and the luring ambition of understanding how*

I try to figure out how to engange with the technology: PLE/onenote's position in a network. Somehow I get into reading about cloud tech (see first notebook). The boundaries in the technology seems unclear at once, and as I have decided upon a 'document' study of the information system I must figure out how to pick out issues to follow and try to get access. **I am inspired by ideas about the benefits of decentralization that I see in the literature and hope to understand the issue through a social media ontology**

The literature is inconclusive, and therefore I go ahead with the development of the idea that 'access' must be understood not as a technical issue, but as one that through the idea of alignment (?) could be understood as a form of boundary formation - metadata standards and semantics (AI) transgressing boundaries/categories. **access rights as differentiated mobilities - both as a question of service quality and 'ordensansvar/oversikt'**

This is a question of bidirectionality. Most IIS are considered to have a unidirectional impact on management accounting, but first this is a question of temporality (influence in the opposite direction takes longer) This is not a question that has been attended much to according to Rom and .. literature review. I think this could be productively considered as part of the abstract databasing and cloud computing paradigm.. **I feel like I can show how my intervention into the theoretization of algorithmic/digital social science research trajectory will go so far as to consider the merit of positivistic approaches to these questions - such as "large stream of research investigates the performance effects of investments in IT"**
*The topic of my thesis is the co-construction of performance indicators. I could argue that despite recognizing the 'technological deterministic' tendencies of IIS/Aut.Tech.I(¤)Env. the impact of management accounting upon IIS must be seen through the lens of 'distance learning' especially. Here comes the question of impact upon a larger system, that I look at through the lens of the state.*

and second..
"several variables mediate or moderate the relationship between IIS and management accounting. Especially literature within the contingency theory offers several variables, including perceived environmental uncertainty (PEU) (Chong and Chong, 1997), strategy (Gerdin and Greve, 2004), bureaucratisation (Gordon and Miller, 1976), task complexity (van der Veeken and Wouters, 2002) and resources such as the skills of employees (Gordon and Miller, 1976). While contingency variables gain considerable attention in the contingency literature, other streams of research consider contingency or context variables. This is, for example, the case of institutional theory, where the impact of external organisations such as consultants is investigated (Ansari and Euske, 1987). The context variables can be many and it is not the purpose of the framework to put forth an exhaustive list of such variables. Context variables are mediating variables when, for example, the IIS causes some change in the strategy. The IIS may enable the company to pursue a strategy of just-in-time (JIT) production. The change in strategy might in turn cause a change in management accounting. This is very likely as the purpose of management accounting is to produce information (e.g. the evaluation of the success of strategies (Horngren et al., 2005, p. 5)).

Context variables can also be moderating variables, which, for example, is the case of tasks that require action-centred skills. In this situation, transaction-oriented components of the IIS are able to support the management accounting carried out by lower-level mangers. In the case of tasks that require analytical skills, a business intelligence system might better support higher-level managers (van der Veeken and Wouters, 2002). Context variables can both impact and be impacted by IIS and management accounting. Furthermore, the relationship need not be linear. One research stream is particularly interested in the role of power and politics (e.g. Bariff and Galbraith, 1978; Markus and Pfeffer, 1983; Skærbæk, 1998 ;  Abernethy and Vagnoni, 2004). The IIS has the ability to shift power bases. When implementing a performance monitoring system, power might shift to top management. Organisational members might be aware of this and may try to influence the implementation project so that the shifting of power is minimised. Furthermore, the IIS or management accounting can also be used as a means of legitimation (DiMaggio and Powell, 1983 ;  Ansari and Euske, 1987)."




#Chapter 4 - **transnational infrastructure and neoliberal interventions** re-scribing meaning within networks - Governance, the materiality of learning and the intervention of deep learning.

'How much longer will it be usefull to talk about the digital in schools?'

Skal vi gjøre som Francis Lee sier og forstå algoritmer ut fra de kulturelle praksisene som utnytter den, og ikke som stabile objekter, så tenker jeg at vi bør spørre hvordan abstrakte databaser gjøres. Jeg ser blant annet på hvordan de gjøres i elevenes og lærerenes hverdag som i deres søke-praksis, men videre handler dette om forsøk på å skape en infrastruktur som støtter denne formen for læring på et 'dypere' nivå.

#Last chapter: Reassembling the school. *re-scription etc*
Hvor finner vi multistakeholder modellen som er oppfattet som 'bindeleddet'?
Hvordan gjøres former for validitet, relevanse og brukbarhet


Senteret for IKT i utdanningen er en: Her er meta-data standarder hentet ned fra de internasjonale/transnasjonale konfigurasjonene som er definert rundt disse teknologiene.
Men, autome pakker blir ikke delt i statlige nettverk. Dette gjøres muligens i markedet, eller i lokale nettverk. Teknologien som ønskes å reguleres deles opp etter en økonomisk modell, slik Francis Lee sier.


*maybe ch2* teachers as laypeople > participants in the national survaillence infrastructure.
teachers as professionals > their introduction to new scientific/ethnographical methods and their politics of intervention and/or resistance + their efforts at introducing forms of digital literacy into this.


*Skrevet etter å ha sett ACLR 2017 conferenace om modeller for data literacy instruction*
Hvordan behandles hensynene til 'the goal of developing competencies for a structured format for implementing data instruction across campus and adapt data information literacy standards'.
-tilnærimng til instuksjonslesningsøvelsen på kurs
-Database bygging og politikk
-intervjuer om reform-strategier

Autonomi og differensiering mellom spesifikke og generelle teknologier som en lesning av metadata og balansen mellom det å mekanisere egne-praktiske øvelser/bestemmelser og institusjonens-validated(scientists)*

autome maskiner.. Widening the idea of instructional media: following their making as algorithmic products and the use of the referential(abstract) database as foundations for learning - instructional media across the organization and the idea of AI.

Re-assembling the market and the state: waiting for someone to solve a problem and a market to appear by virtue of the solution. The politics of building software adaptation capabilities in networks and their limited role (the mediating role of the metadata standards).

New products and treatment of autonomous machines in networked learning approaches and infrastructure design.
