
##foreword?
*the awareness of the large scale infrastructure and its global aspects in the school*
H





#Introduction

##A study of a culture of experimentation: STS in education - A theory or a method?
When deciding upon whether one should use a classic structure of scientific writing or whether one should try to inhabit a scholarly sense of creative play between the genre of analytical work one partake in and those genres of knowledge which one uses as the subject for one's argument. Doing so one also decides upon a history; a narrative bound to a sense of temporality. More specifically one decides upon how much one rely upon one's own construction (or a model that one borrow) of a historiography. I try partake in a theoretical construction (a theory bound by factors more or less specified in the thesis) and at the same time feature into the genre of knowledge that I study so to also be able to contribute to the systematized body of knowledge that describes the education system's transitions through current revolutions in technology, politics and science.

If we see ANT as a theory then it is perhaps easy to talk about how new perspectives within educational research is emerging among the many writers that considers issues in education through this theoretic lens. These writers have typically introduced the field of STS as a separate history, detached in many ways from the research objects, or at least somehow struggling to get beyond Latour and ANT. On the other hand, when approaching ANT as a method we might read the inherent politics of the history of STS in education as one dealing with issues of how to approach the ethics of social scientific knowledge (and especially media studies) and its the politics inherent in its influence over what is taught, and how this comes to be. > i.e. guides towards how 'mass media literacy' could be didactically translated into the work and responsibility (ethics) of the educator.

ANT is neither. It is in both cases a form of internal reference in an academic tradition. In the first case used inductively to pull the education regime through the hoop of a (wider) academic tradition and its 'model power' in processes of intellectual political economy. Generalizations could however only be made with references to other studies touching upon the same generalizations, building the argument for a deductive form of reasoning - changing the research agenda. An interesting could perhaps be traced as they reflexively could use the terminology developed by Latour to generalize upon how this is done in the educational research community.
In the second it could perhaps be said to have been used deductively, as these players used the social movement around education and media ethics to try to form an argument that was true, and would force through change based upon the evidence. This is explicitly political.

###A new strand of STS in education
*STS is contiuously caught in the grips of this historiographical controvercy over the relevance of its methodology. As could be seen here, I take many of these debates for granted and presume not that they should or could be summed up in a theory chapter and a method chapter. It would frankly be somewhat random what to discuss where. Yet, I still try to work myself into a theoretical debate and contribute to a solution. It is important to note therefore that although I aim at being able to make generalizations about the fields of knowledge that I study I am not able (and won't try) to make conclusive statements outside of the debates in the STS literature that I aim to discuss*
**Many STS works of this kind sets out with the premise of not taking anything for granted, and therefore simply studying situations and their networks (i.e. networks as translations of certain technologies) only with the terminologies of the literature as their guide towards specifying what is interesting research objects and how we can follow their 'geneological'(?) emergence - i.e. the population survey in government-building. These are minimalistic and are often study analytical forms as a kind of 'new materiality' studies. On the other hand one find studies that study the relevance of specific terms and theories. These often borrow terminology from within STS and use them in other fields like pedagogy or innovation studies. In the example I rely upon these are often based on interviews, and tries to figure out whether their terminology resonates - as cross-disciplinary theoretical ontologies - with those at the location they intervene into. I try to be more explicit about the way I develop the research object. This has probably been described in a multitude of ways, but I choose to borrow Sørensen's terminology and call it methodological. Moreover, I choose to describe it as a critical approach. The terminology of 'critical theory' is not much used as the whole tradition emerged out of such debates, but I take from Lemke and try to follow how the concepts we develop 'float' beyond the context that I observed. This is closely related with a multicited ethnography, but Lemke also uses a more readily historiographical, or political economic approach.
My argument is therefore a theoretical effort at testing the way these theories work together to illuminate.. The empiri I develop in the first chapters are therefore followed out into a wider political context. We can say that we study a controversy, but I am more specific in my investigation of the politics of innovation as I try to study these controversies through the documents that coproduce them.
This is one way to use the social constructivist argument to get around the linear illusion. We look at the way an intervention is done, and what spaces it constructs as it does.**
*Although I will try to make conclusive statements about the relevance for research in the STS of education for the wider field of STS my methodological approach is geared towards addressing discussions that interested me as a student of digital STS and the theoretical challenges the relevance of this debate to the methodological dilemas mentioned above. I argue that STS researcher would do well to recognize the value of analytical frameworks in political economy more generally and that resources within STS would help in the effort at clarifying the methodological challenges to studying innovation and its politics. Not least public innovations and the history and politics of public-private boundaries, which I will argue itself is a basis for effecting policy in important issues like the ethics of open data and mechanisms of access in democracies.*

##Research Question
I ask how we can understand boundary work in education politics in Norway in the wake of the onset of international measurement practices in the early 2000s. Boundary work is a form of discrimination between spheres of society and of work that is understood through the distinction between, and enforcement of, knowledge boundaries...
I look at the construction and re-scription knowledge boundaries in metadata pracices.
I look at how the digital has become included in definitions of competence in the evaluation criteria and I ask how these matter. How they travel through the organization.
I ask how they interact with new digital technologies that are on full way into the school system today!
*My contribution: I aim at clarifying the role of the state and the school as a producer of knowledge, by challenging the linear misconception of knowledge deriving into these infrastructures as a digestive processing of information. Therefore, this is more than a methodological challenge I aim at contributing to. The theory also aim at addressing a highly relevant issue in the management and regulation of information politics, or the political economy of information capitalism, centered on the idea of the scientific study of informatics as a science of the processing of reality - as a premissed in the nodal metaphor that we will follow all the way from the field of AI to examination practices (questions that are general??).

The most renowned object in the new public management education regime in the OECD-countries is the so called PISA-tests. The question of its effects could be characterized as understood either in the light of a deterministic trend towards further surveillance and increased pressure upon the individual to perform according to the inherent values of these measurement devices, or as a sort of 'hard question' in which the relativistic comparisons created through these information technologies seem to raise more questions than they answer about how such values are handled in different knowledge regimes, labor markets, and/or national economies.
But although the widely acknowledged impact of these tests works well as a starting point for my analysis.. My story is a story about participatory observation and the theoretization of conceptualizations of the education system in the 21st century. The PISA-test is in this framework seen as (assumed to be) 'measurement devices'(¤) that works towards this aim. The thesis is in one sense much wider however, as it tells a story about the fourth industrial revolution, globalization, and artificial intelligence, as they can be observed through the lens of a secondary school in the midst of a continuous and long standing reform effort - in its hallways, classrooms, offices and its databases. At the same time as it is also much more narrow, as it studies the implementation of one reform and its effects in the knowledge management system...

In this essay I will try to approach these questions not as much of as a cause-effect analysis, but more as a historiographical account of a 'boundary infrastructure'. An reaction exclaming something in the terms of 'a history of what!?' is perhaps not such a bad starting point for getting to grips with the 'how' of how we are to ask questions in this new historic landscape. To study the way such measurement devices produces knowledge of the world, out of i.e. tests, and give actors within the 'history' of my short study the agency to act (negotiate, make alliances, commit treason etc.) is to ask how new accountancy practices are formed among the technologies of the 'new economies' that are said to transform society and that 'boundary institutions' have to help to give value to.


*In many ways I look at a case of treason, in which the so-called technology constructed within the LSP sector is abandoned and new alliances are drawn.. Windows are definitely a central actor in negotiating the terms of such a transition. They even 'brand' the standard that re-scribes functionality of these technologies in the market.*
**How does the transnational standards i.e. travel through different regulatory frameworks and models in the design of 'local' standards? > i.e. how is the standard specified in accountancy/evaluation devices measuring 'creativity' up against goal-achievement become mediated by the search and information infrastructure that is regulated in the political economy of digital school-networks? How is the ontology of social media done and what can our decentralization-localization metaphor translate into these conversations? - What can it tell us about how to study how these ontologies can be studied as part of digital infrastructure?**
Answering a call to study the 'high-tech of soc-of-ed'
*By following these actors I can then for example say that further research should study the political economy of the school system not so much as a system as local enterprises and ask questions about the political economy that does not assume only investors to control the 'system' through interest(ment) organizations and their influence over regulatory mechanisms (model making). We should furthermore look at innovation and entrepreneurship in, and capitalizing on, the public sector as 'interested' and active in the negotiations of the terms of facilitation of these industries. They facilitate cultural markets that I describe as inherent in important processes in the valuation and co-production of pedagogic competences (that underlie the ethics of accreditation and ownership(?)) and infrastructures of open knowledge that support public, in democratic processes and model-making in innovation processes alike.


**Studying imaginaries of the future**
How was the future then made? How do we as knowledge workers deal with the high tech in education?
In this thesis I have done a lot of work to try to understand how we can observe the high-tech in education today.
I look at how the digital has become included in definitions of competence in the evaluation criteria and I ask how these matter. How they travel through the organization.
I ask how they interact with new digital technologies that are on full way into the school system today!
These are concerns that were central to Sørensen's original study and that the literature is beginning to come to terms with as the politics of technology in education.
*the politics of how one ecology of materialities replaces another* as a question of how *'the politics of work oriented design'* us done.

**I knew where to look - a method of becoming/emerging**
Furthermore I look into the more subtle and more invisible aspects.
that interventions into the governance practices in which makes evaluation in education such a contentious issue.
measurement practices known as *'evaluation for learning'* as governance of the materiality of learning.
**A short story its emergence in response to PISA measurements** and *my experience of the industrialization of learning*


##Meeting MLG - background
My previous essay had this conclusion *Controversies that had long been open around the use of LMS was evidence of a persistent problem, and it showed that the my concerns about the lack of leadership(design) was a wider problem than was recognized. It was of course a question about what kind of leadership, or - in a post-human perspective - in an alliance with what?*:
"Knowledge in the education system is highly specialised, and almost firm specific, although pedagogy as an academic subject branches over into other sectors. Typical for service sectors is that knowledge that spur innovation derives in the form of tacit knowledge in form of objects (Malerba, 2005). International studies show that Norway have a relatively very high access to basic facilities such as PCs, internet connection and projectors (Second Information technology in Education Studies, 2006, as cited UDIR 2011). Nevertheless, knowledge in the LSP sektor is to a larger extent internal to schools. There are of course the experts, and the networks of developers, that have connections into the world of IT and informatics and is as such staying closely connected with global knowledge, however, the teachers themselves have as we have seen gained a demanding role in a development that some say will undermine their profession. In recent years there have been strikes of historic proportions within the education sector (Aurdal, 2014). Studies in innovation studies do show that developing mechanisms that picks upon knowledge learned by doing is essential to any innovating business, and in the public sector where there is no inherent concept of a customer espcially (Bloch & Bugge, 2013). However the dynamics of demand at the level of the buyer of LSP licences has brought prices down, picking winners."


*I wanted to look at how the teacher mediated flows of information - learning about construction of opinion*
After three years of studying all the technicalities behind the political and the economics behind different rationalities - with its fluid and sometimes violent fluctuations and transitions - I had a good understanding of how to read the education reform and its many directives as political economic enterprises and projects that urged us teachers to act within the freedoms that we were given. I experienced the amount of effort it took to negotiate the terms of how to relate to new categories and became aware of how resources put aside to position oneself, one's projects, one's team and one's organization etc., within such system ate away the resources and the will to attend to the innovations envisioned in the governments plans.

Back at the university STS made me more sensitive to the **complexities of the mediating role**.
On the one hand I was very interested in the potential of technologies that would facilitate what is sometimes known as 'horizontal innovation'(¤) and the effective 'use' of content that I already knew existed. Yet I knew that really gaining an insight into the innovative practices of teachers - knowledge distribution as an achievement - I would have to study teachers for much longer. Yet, I knew many of the theoretical technologies that were being 're-scribed' meaning in the design of the political reform. These questions resonated with the idea that technologies changed relationships of care as they were translated into practice, and this fit well with the idea that **I could so some kind of 'technography'. What technologies was it that was being translated into the school system then?** I began researching the technologies behind the LMS and I became interested in studying the mediation of the struggle between different actors in the 'integrated learning system'. I became concerned both with 'care for the technology' and at the same time the idea of infrastructure.

The idea of 'sorting things out' and negotiating categories...

that would facilitate practices of care.. and care-practices were interesting in the light of transnational networks and alliances. Teacher's are of course more than simply providers of readily made knowledge, handing over 'content' curated by publishers, but the human-centered approach basically asked how a teacher would best do this defined through ideas of 'special needs'.
**I chose to look at the idea of individualization because..**
These practices could therefore supposedly be said to be valued through relationships between researchers studying learners as 'natural', the teacher and persons that show defects from the norm. At best it is based on an idea of a spectrum of individualization in which adapting to the needs of the learner meant knowing in advance what progressive step was about to happen in the development of a person - a question of what content to reach when - and not how the content would reach her/him and/or how it would fit into the materialities in which he/she was handling - the situatedness of devices.

It dawned on me that the school would actually be a great place for a study of the social construction of the competence of mediation, modeled on what *Lezan's(¤) calls 'the market of opinions'*. It would contribute to both the study of education and practices of mediation. *First*, in education, it would be productive to integrate knowledge about other important classroom relationships, such as that between teachers and the misbehaving student or the teacher and the group, into our ideas of the networks that support the distribution of knowledge.
*Second*, in the study of mediation, it would be interesting to see how Lezan's study would work in the intermix between ontologies of participation in opinion debates, in which self-expression was key, and ontologies of fact making in which kids became framed as capable of knowing what we aimed at teaching them. Why didn't more of our knowledge reach them, as readily explorable, and why wasn't more of our science directed towards making the knowledge explorable by everyone?

**Dewey talks about this as their service and ideas of a service market and service science is quickly intermixed with bureaucracy and citiezenship. How did then consumerism enter the picture?**





It is often studied as a public process signaled by technological, industrial and societal change, but like many other scholars writing within STS my work tries bring down the implicit analytical distinction between what is societal-political and what (in a now classically feminist critique) is said to be private or personal.
Knowledge boundaries are of course inherent in the education system and if we are to ascribe any value to these boundaries and our continuous efforts to uphold them we have to work to understand how they allow us to do things. For these 'doings' to be considered conscious acts we must ascribe them a context, but at once the context is set the personal disappears and how we value the possession of knowledge in our private lives become dependent upon the trajectories through (contexts) which we as individuals are thought to be set on. My question is therefore especially critical towards the effects that such boundary work has upon the evaluation of individuals and how this 'analytical dualism' (between knowledge and learning) translate into the valuation practices that organize human and non-human classification systems?




so to say, we want to ask where the categories they test for come from. The idea of studying classifications is not new at all a new one...
Despite the fact that it seems a marginal question it is actually a central tension in the knowledge practice.. > examples of the critical importance of why students are in school for legitimation and so, as critical writers have worked to show, the legal mechanisms that decides how the school is run. (measurement of success)
The idea of studying boundary infrastructure is in many ways a highly ambitious endeavor, called for (?) by @bowker_sorting_1999 in Sorting Things Out: Classifications and its Consequences, but it is based on the idea of reading .. into infrastructure - Star
In my reading Bowker's great contribution has been his analysis of memory work and the changing 'mission' of science through changing forms of temporality.

I became inspired to ask how a new temporality is installed in the education system (inspiring questions about the future).
Then I also consider how such a paradox of competence (analytical dualism in valuation practice) is re-scribed in the accountancy devices that partake in the working out of categories that build up a new information system. How does the politics of reforms relate to issues of 'flexible standardization' - boundary work as interventions into standards that augment (?) the interpretive flexibility of the technology? *read star and bowker*


Having received training in political science I know how hugely problematic it is to make claims about the authority of social science in questions of that enmesh assumptions about technological, industrial and (sometimes) political.

These are very often all marked by the distinct symbolic label of 'globalization', almost as a reservation against the uncertainty of the future. This peculiar interest in our limited knowledge of the global was something that I brought with me into my work in the school sector after I finished my degree. It was striking that the term - the all encompassing account of the history of our era - now became reserved to a few pages in one of the three social science books at the 10th grade - at the end of the book series and at the end of the student's course through the compulsory education system. The questions that roared so loudly in the face of positivist theorists of the state, the economy and international society - the authorities that had claimed, at the onset of the (unthinkable) end of the Cold War, that the future to an ever larger extent had already been predict by the the theoretical models under their possession - were to be reserved for those higher up. The future with its many possibilities, and its controversial past, was almost entirely cut off from the realm of education.


**Moreover, we know that we were never modern...**
This is said to have become much more acute in the information age as the metaphor of these externalities have become defining feature of a societal wide mission to overcome the flood of information. Yet, as scholars of STS we know that information overflow has been a defining feature of the modern era and that our ability to understand these continuities is much more important than the obligation we have to the owners of information technologies. Be that our teachers, our politicians, our future bosses or 'industrial leaders'. As knowledge workers we all capitalize upon crisis, because in an age of continuous change we are the ones that deal with continuing what came of society's historical endeavors. We work with technologies as knowledge objects the same way that a art theorist objectifies the value of art. The same way laborers upon the railways has been said to have carved modern society from the solid ground, or a carpenter in the townships of Europe at the hight of its urban romantic past shaped the tastes and dreams of the so called new middle classes through the training of his trade.
*I became particularly interested in the calculative devices that we tried to use to integrate our database - LMS*
This way I study the ways that the various elements of the school system work upon these materialities (the evaluation for learning standards). This is a study of valuation practices that address care practices and intervene in and reassemble the composition of ethical considerations.







##The methodological challenge of studying boundary infrastructure
**first I wanted to ask what the imaginaries were that augmented kids through their encounter with SMART-technologies, much like the translation of technology into a new sector. However then I started to take abstract computing seriously**
I wanted to: discuss the augmenting power of education technology then in relation to the kinds of accounting system it creates in which a learner is positioned as a learner, according to himself and external actors. So what is it that becomes divided up between the politics of work (learning) and the politics of science (the subject)? By using the analysis of the materiality of learning I also start asking how the division between the human and none-human actors is regained. These are the theoretical technologies (*models*) that uphold a knowledge system. How do we study the importance of human actors in this knowledge system **of smart devices**?

*In relation to the market of opinions* I had hoped to study the difference made by the position of the teacher changing. I thought that the general and/or continuous change that was happening in the geography of education could be traced: There used to be a school-building with classrooms and perhaps a lunch room in which the teachers lounged, but no offices and in which the teacher sat at the crux of a circulating flow of 'learning materials' between him and whole groups - every now and then he/she takes with her/him all the work that has been done by the students (i.e. a test), brings it back home and evaluate it according to some criteria, and add a score into some personal information system before handing the document, with a score, back to the student. Now each school has an office space, and the harsh negotiations are happening over whether this should be defined as a work-space that a teacher is bound to be at during his working hours. Students sometimes hands work in, but even then not necessarily in paper. I observe a clear trend towards an increased pressure to figure out productive ways of creating digital systems that fulfills the purpose of these evaluation practices while also adding the benefits of 'digital technologies'.

The evaluation for learning is tied to measurement practices that according to itself is integral to the materiality of learning in the school system. It ties together the care-practices of the teacher with the learning-practices of the pupil more closely.
I try to follow the accountancy devices that allow us to say that teachers are put into work in a new way.

These questions I have defined through the politics of creating sharing standards, or what has been called the industrialization of learning..
I follow both the onenote culture, through meetings and organization building activities and use of metaphors of creativity..

These are issues of individualization in learning networks that have a history as they are subject to industries of circulation..
Nevertheless, this network tries to enlarge to also order.. the growing importance of the politics of decentralization and standards of openness of data is causing a qualitative shift, which is perhaps characterized by calls for new understandings of literacy.

Then I started to:
I explicitly deal with abstract computing as an emerging object within a paradigm of networked digital users. I ask how the mechanization of flows opens for increased agency given to atomus calculative devices and a more radical reconfiguration of the relationship between learner and technology. This is seen in the negotiation of market mechanisms and the role and responsibilities of different actors even today. Like this I try to take the future seriously. I work towards building theory that takes hight of the impact of technologies in ecologies of learning, a term I don't only find in the STS literature but that became important in many more fields: among other things the *ecologies among 'technologists', preoccupied with work-processes*.

















If they (tests) simply reinforce the will of the center then what choices does this imply? If we think of it in terms of accountancy devices then how does it change practice in practice.
Moreover, is it fare to describe international frameworks as simply alliances that strengthen the national, or must we try to understand the geopolitical inclinations of the transnational framework?
I argue that this necessitates a transnational infrastructure alliance. Transnationally a shift is said to occur back towards becoming a producer/prosumer learner. This automated way of learning is based on principles of openness that co-produces ways of learning (as tokens towards common goal) and ways of searching (marketing). Could one say that this reproduces the 'integrated learning system' in the materialities of the wider education system? We do need to consider the relationship between these infrastructures and the 'classroom integration strategies' of states and the reproduction of the local state apparatus.




#############################################################






Like Law I write my own intervention into the story. However, by applying his theoretical move here I am more explicit about the way I do this.. It is a good move because like Pols we are understanding care as a critical part of ... while also not stopping there or trying to generalize about the intersections between fields and technologies. We are placing these care practices in the politics of the critical - the biopolitics - and not simply the politics of one field of study.

**My observations and analytical framework is however not structured around these spaces alone, although all lines of inquiry are all drawn together analytically around my efforts to study these spaces. I also do my best to tell these stories in a reflexive fashion, so that it is evident how a research object has emerged through my own investigations into different strands of knowledge and spaces of knowledge production and dissemination. I therefore try to make my own role in the story self-evident. Not only as a narrator, an observer of events, or as a participant in the knowledge community at the school or my institute (though indeed important in its own right), but furthermore also as an instigator and proponent of new (emerging) lines of questioning in 'the field' of the secondary school and the school system, the literature of 'my field' and its uptake in educational program I attend, and the 'fields of research' that interlink my line of reasoning with the 'networks' that are being 'interested' in the boundary infrastructure of the Norwegian educational regime and which 'interests' me into this network. By telling a story about the possibilities of work, capital, and political organization (i.e. regulation and/or 'resistance') on the path between the university - the becoming of an educated - and the school system - the becoming of an educator I hope to paint a picture of change and continuation in the political economy that encapsulates the educational system and facilitates the circulation from top to bottom.  I use my position as a student of STS and innovation studies to ask questions about how these 'cultures of experimentation' approaches the question of 'the politics of technology and education'. I am not able to tell a definite story of any kind, but I try to be clear about how an ethnographic study of a boundary object at a secondary school partake in solving this intellectual challenge. I try to make clear the relevance of settling issues of visibility and invisibility among the 'publics' that partake in the formation of my research object. That is the technologies that 'interests' publics in the 'local' discourse to the wider publics among 'cultures of experimentation' and democratic mechanisms of regulation and consensus. Or, to say it differently, the issues that arise as the possibilities of technology is substantiated by the continuous problems they encounter in translation into the organizational environment of the school.**


By becoming more aware of the kind of intervention I am making as I am lending to the critical study of these mechanisms I also structure the field of STS. This is a highly calculated move in many ways. I write my own intervention into the field of STS by mustering its proponents as my references, and in so doing I am making these resources available to whatever cause I am addressing. My idea of relevance is then structured upon the idea of a study of critical areas of study. An area that require surveillance because of its importance.  

Furthermore however, this is required look beyond the sociology of technology that we follow. We need to be able to understand how the landscape is changing by looking at ontologies as practiced upon the technologies on their travel.

This is a Latourian move in which the we try to ask some fundamental questions about how we can understand these activities as social interventions, or simply as part of society, while trying to avoid the use of claims of structural methodology. Doing this however, I need to simultaneously perform three theoretical moves.

1)First we join the likes of Sørensen and we go beyond ANT. Instead of analyzing one (category of) education technology through the 'theoretical' lens of an actor-network we rather use the empirical philosophy underlying the ANT-framework 'methodologically'. We reflexively analyze how our own assumptions fare within the friction between the materialities that are addressed by these assumptions and other materialities in the situations we observe. We then let the situation form our endevour methodologically as 'STS scholars' and our intervention into the visiting field.

2)second we do as Latour and follow the materialities. This is not so easy when

3)Star - the ecology.

The translation of technology inside a country does much the same but has an easier approach to get around the challenge of following the ecology of these actors simultaneously.
Instead of following the LMS or the cloud as it is translated into this system I try to understand the ontology that goes into the the care for this object - the mission that help these actors sort and order the normativities of these materialities. Instead of dealing with these technologies as knowledge objects and somehow dealing with them in an ANT framework in a different way we observe the move towards a culture of experimentation.



We must consider how these networks produce objects of experimental-study; in the instances and meanings of knowledge in pedagogic 'science', knowledge in pedagogic practice such as questions qualifying for the assessment-strategies in learning, and knowledge making for competence as a pedagog.




###TIK and the silent debate
I study how political reforms are ingrained in the fabric of the school system, its knowledge management system and the materiality of learning. Future-making is an inherent part of educational politics. The relationship between the present and the future is part of the democratic foundation of the institution and the scientific legitimization of the teacher profession. Around ideas of disciplining (moral, remembering, creativity) and ideas of freedom (participation, inspiration, self-expression) that govern schools as micro-societies, with the familiar metaphors of subcultures and the like, bound together by their own set of laws. Although these rights are much hailed as examples of progressive social rights they are also expressions of societal changes that have been critizised - i.e. Christie.

The critical perspective is indeed an important perspective in this regard:
I consider how the idea of competence is constructed around a paradox. Measurement and autonomy
*Dewey:* "For many, education’s purpose is to train students for work by providing the student with a limited set of skills and information to do a particular job. As Dewey notes, this limited vocational view is also applied to teacher training schools who attempt to quickly produce proficient and practical teachers with a limited set of instructional and discipline skills needed to meet the needs of the employer and demands of the workforce (Dewey, 1904). For Dewey, the school and the classroom teacher, as a workforce and provider of a social service, have a unique responsibility to produce psychological and social goods that will lead to both present and future social progress. As Dewey notes, "The business of the teacher is to produce a higher standard of intelligence in the community, and the object of the public school system is to make as large as possible the number of those who possess this intelligence. Skill, ability to act wisely and effectively in a great variety of occupations and situations, is a sign and a criterion of the degree of civilization that a society has reached. It is the business of teachers to help in producing the many kinds of skill needed in contemporary life. If teachers are up to their work, they also aid in production of character(Dewey, TAP, 2010, p.p.241-242).
According to Dewey, the emphasis is placed on producing these attributes in children for use in their contemporary life because it is “impossible to foretell definitely just what civilization will be twenty years from now” (Dewey, MPC, 2010, p. 25). However, although Dewey is steadfast in his beliefs that education serves an immediate purpose (Dewey, DRT, 2010; Dewey, MPC, 2010; Dewey, TTP, 2010), he is not ignorant of the impact imparting these qualities of intelligence, skill and character on young children in their present life will have on the future society. While addressing the state of educative and economic affairs during a 1935 radio broadcast, Dewey linked the ensuing economic depression to a “lack of sufficient production of intelligence, skill and character” (Dewey, TAP, 2010, p. 242) of the nation’s workforce. As Dewey notes, there is a lack of these goods in the present society and teachers have a responsibility to create them in their students, who, we can assume, will grow into the adults who will ultimately go on to participate in whatever industrial or economical civilization awaits them. According to Dewey, the profession of the classroom teacher is to produce the intelligence, skill and character within each student so that the democratic community is composed of citizens who can think, do and act intelligently and morally."(wikipedia)


**Seeing the individual in the knowledge creation**
This has been important several reasons. First, knowledge boundaries are tricky objects to study for the reason that they seem inherently rational and hard to question from the outside. Nevertheless, because of this 'inherent power' of knowledge we are all to a further or lesser extent outsiders. Our alienation from politics is an alienation from nature and indirectly from ourselves, as the Marxian account would have it. I was always fascinated by this idea, and wondered how the concept related to ideas of repression in psychology. This thesis will approach these questions with the added confidence that these theories can be studied pragmatically, and are indeed inherent in the running and upholding of the school system as one of the pillars of modern society. The pragmatic turn in philosophy shares an intriguing, long lasting and perhaps not very well known history with educational research. The man accredited as the instigator of the pragmatic turn in American philosophy, John Dewey, was also the instigator of a new and more pragmatic approach in pedagogy. Both disciplines took on a .. towards the human actors...
Furthermore, in Europe one of the most important of scholars to kick of a new sense of pragmatism post-modern wave was Michell Foucault, and he too turned back towards the school as an institution. Like Dewey he too went to great lengths to explain how the normativities of 'society' cross the cognitive boundary and become imprintet in man through historical/social processes, or, more precisely how we study these processes.

So why does this history matter? And how can I justify dragging the heavy weighters of history of the social sciences into the work of defining the topic of my thesis in its very first paragraphs? The answer is both a simple and radical one. Marx, Dewey, Foucault, were all writing at times of economic crisis and social upheaval, in which academics were heading calls for educators to come to grips with the assumptions that they brought with them into the classroom, and the weight of the responsibility they bore for interpreting the legacy of those past. All are pragmatic in their approaches to empiricism in the sense that they profess a methodological turn towards an historiographical account of materiality and all are as such dealing with the analysis of capitalism in its contemporary form. Some might well argue that both Dewey and Foucault were reacting against Marxist interpretations of history and linear-structuralist accounts of its progression, but we might do well to consider these discussions in light of the Gramscian account of hegemony and the historic bloc. Although the scope of this thesis does not allow for a thorough investigation into these inter-linkages it is important to pause for long enough to see how such a debate sustain an interest in education as a phenomenon well into the branches of social science that is professed at the institution that I am writing.


The 'linear' philosophical model of knowledge creation and dissemination, that researchers both within STS and innovation studies are so keen to disprove, are enacted within 'knowledge regimes'(¤) that 'order'(¤) 'types of knowledge'(¤) hierarchically as a form of power politics within knowledge practices at institutions (allowing us to research 'models of innovation' as phenomena) and in the political economy of education (¤) and science (academia + Research & Development)(Latour.., ¤). These are forms of hegemony that allow us to interpret Hegelian dialectics in what is known as a neo-marxist fashion, or post-modern in the Bourdieuan (or context of French sociology) sense, as genres that 'travel' and that explains the ways in which social practices (structure) both are created by and create the values and theories (superstructure) we use to rationalize and explain our practices (Better to find in discourse analysis book? - http://www.igi-global.com/dictionary/historical-bloc/13123). This backdrop is absolutely essential as we interpret Dewey *acronious* and Foucault's efforts to move beyond the context of the Marxian debate. As we start to talk of rationality as inherent in the situations and the materiality that we study the phenomenology of learning is interpreted within structures that are distinctly 'anti-modern' in the sense that they withhold political analysis in favor of social movements. Where Marx were calling for the disintegration of capitalism from within its center - the education of the working classes - the continuation of the spatial metaphor of analytical form as a material approach to dialectics is distinct - perhaps pronounced most clearly by Max Weber. *One could also say that Gramski and Dewey were writing about objects defined by their shape. Dewey's explains issues as raised by publics*

Despite being very broad debates these analytical tools are required to allow us to ask questions about the form of the contemporary industrial revolution - the fourth of its kind, since Marx's 'first', Dewey's 'second', and Foucault's 'third'. We will see that it is fundamental to the way STS scholars of today is trying to formulate reflexive strategies to retrospectively dig into histories of such revolutions and study 'the digital' in light of debates around the history of 'information overload' as a defining feature of the modern era. Equally, it will be elementary in our efforts to engage the STS canon of literature to refashion educational research in this light. And, as such, I will try to make my contribution one in which brings to light the way that these metaphors continue to reshape and make sense of the historical bloc, the shapeless metamorphosis, of capitalism among the publics that order themselves according to the lines that divides labor in the 'future-making'(¤) within the Norwegian education system. Accordingly, I argue that we (as in the knowledge workers that orient their work towards the issue) are hard pressed to avoid presumptions about the sectorial landscape (and its shapes). Like, Andrew Barry(¤) and Kristin Asdal(¤) I try re-engage in materialist-historisist approaches to the state (beyond the superstructure) and read the literature in the light of the geopolitics of technology and the material (as well as theoretic) technologies of innovation and innovation management.

I am heading the call of Asdal and the STS researchers at the center for Technology, Innovation and Culture in their study of the 'little tools' that governs our efforts as tools of valuation to manifest what is expected of a 'good economy' and its flag-bearers. Nevertheless, I also aim at contributing to the mission set out on by the likes of Susanne Bauer and Pols in the ..project
In doing this my colleagues and I () are collectively approaching the other bundle of research at the institute, namely innovation studies, as we are trying to deal with issues central to this field ourselves.
Neither of these fields tend to be very quick at recognizing their inheritence from the field of political economy (The historiography of the politication of economy, i.e. Marx), perhaps because of its concern with emphasising the emprisism of what is 'on the ground'. Rather they engage in national and international debates about models of innovation systems and/or the other (transnational) models of innovation.. and the infrastructures of science. Nevertheless, I argue that by enrolling conceptions about the national, international and transnational we are ..










I choose to understand this process through the idea of gamification. Or, to approach this issue the other way around, I find independence and autonomy as a pedagogic design to have come from a almost opposing angle. This is are those approaching pedagogic design from the angle of systems design. *If the independent game was systems design extreme and the SMS/accounting systems an opposing extreme in which engineering ways that circumvents breaches in critical infrastructure and that does this through the disciplining of various elements in a cost-effective way, then we got a kind of overview of an innovation chart. We could keep the same axes upon which I was theorizing a few weeks back. The typical game could simply be one in which systems thinking is applied, but that exists as a file within current market structures - app platforms. The other axes would then still be the locality vs. decentralized scale. On this scale the lone-standing SMART-board would perhaps be on one end, with an inclination towards systems design whilst also aiming at a class-room oriented approach. On the other end we would have the decentralized element which could be the dynamic atomus file with its appropriate meta-standard. Microsoft works within this space now to reinforce its decentralized-regulatory position for the common CCT platform. 'IKT i utdanningen' might work to establish metastandards that fits the critical infrastructure it has appropriated. However, systems design is also happening at a local level. Efforts are done to add dynamic computer infrastructures to the ecology of devices, however because they are highly device oriented they apply imaginaries in which mobility increases as a factor of 'individualized' and, as such, industrialized mobility. Local 'goals' could be solved more flexibly, but there are barriers to translation across knowledge boundaries because of the challenges raised by industrialized forms of education. Criteria created for platforms of negotiation (new publics) the 'interestment' of students and 'external' actors is left to (pedagogic) expert-regulators - whether this is in the field of sustenance of techniques in online networks (knowledge exchange as research) or whether it is in the fields of research appropriate for less formalized businesses*
**talking about the AI revolution as a product of 'dynamic computing' I get back to the point about the BUSINESS of third-party analyses. The application of large structured datasets has to be treated as autonomous producers of information, and as their own ontologies. We have to understand these as already existing, and take seriously the effort of dealing with these ontologies in the current schema of knowledge management and political economic regulation. The regulation/deregulation of producers of FINTECH and the strategy of applying budgetary/accounting technologies in ways that makes it less economically beneficial to invest in other LMS technologies has to be seen under one. The internet is more than a superopticon, it continues to be designed as a tool for strategic intervention on a large scale - However, studying these technologies as networks that move beyond the state we must also ask how harmonization between individualized learning and group interaction is happening on the technological platforms currently in use. The possibilities that are being ordered in structural design processes. The possible benefits of the 'ordered' (double meaning - bestille og gi ordre) market in cultures of experimentation VS. systems design interventions outside of the market. 'Does the objects produce/circulate enough information for standards to regulate the way they are meant to?'**
