
This thesis asks how knowledge management systems are cared for within Norwegian technopedagoy, and its consequences for the way we study how values are performed in a local computer network. Its starting point is the digitalization of the school system and the controversies that have surrounded the spatiotemperal position of the teacher, and the categorical conditions that produces the technoscientific agency to transcend these boundaries in the 'education system'. The question is formulated as an investigation into the reach of education research into science and technology more generally, as well as the reach the field of Science and Technology Studies (STS) has into the productive forces and vibrant materialities of educational technology, and how these interests overlap. The thesis borrows David Stark's (2009) concept of 'search' to describe how accounts of worth develop in heterarchical organizations. Stark argues that such conditions arise out of the uncertainty of the information economy, but I ask apply the concept somewhat differently. Search engines create conditions for the making of new information repositories (Star ?), and re-draw the boundaries of the education institution. While Stark treats the metaphor as something out-there, liking to the search technologies that make up the central institution of the internet, I ask how these technologies are fascilitated within the knowledge management system of the school. The question results in two subquestions; how politics of work and user oriented design is instilled in efforts at the standardization and economization of data (software, meta-data and economies of scale), and, consequently, how these information infrastructures also produce assemblies of information systems that come to constitute new educational technologies (EdTech).

While studying how innovation is co-produced with the hybrid-communities of digital information infrastructures I also aims at critically reflecting upon the limits of such organizational approaches. I argue that STS approches show how uncertainty has been a more permanent feature of education technologies, though it is prompted in 'narratives of crisis'. More specifically the research asks how delineation and enrollment in the 'evaluation *for* learning' governance scheme have co-produced forms of expertise, competence and equity in a deliberative 'high-tech' sociotechnical landscape. What is produced is a new 'will-to-knowledge', in which the body subject to rule no longer contains whole populations, but distinguishes between the materialities of the data.





#The mobility regime: an increased 'anthropological distance' with the network

*networks are still there, and we are with them, but I want to be more specific about the physical foundations of the infrastructure that has promted the popularity of the metaphor*
From e-learning to m-learning

This is a study of a revolution in information technologies. One which is user driven, in the sense that it is mobile.
Mobile technologies have no wires, and I will show that this causes a new sensitivity to the lack of a network analysis of actual wired networks.

Much have been written lately about an emerging regime of mobile education. Like in all good STS research the topic of this study far exceeds its scope. Much attention in the field has been devoted to 'risky objects' and their facilitation in society, and this study will be no exception. The internet is controvercial..
Moreover though, beyond this 'classical' framework the study of mobility has also tried to contend with how epistemic objects (such as technologies) also travel the other way, seeing society in science and technology.
Another way of saying this is that although my study in many ways is a 'sociology of technology' any analytical boundary between the technical and the scientific would be artificial at best.
The topic therefore also extends beyond the question of how social science is to deal with *digital* knowledge and information.
We could say that it is a question of whether science is knowledge in the abstract, or even the action of individual knowers (i.e. scientists), or whether it is a product of the increasing specificity of manuals - i.e. the scientific revolution.
This is a question not only of how technologies are produced but how they emerge in a relatively independent fashion from 'scientists'. Is it (always) meaningful to talk about actors in a post-human perspective without being able to be specific about the objects under question?

This question alone is of double relevance within education. The question of how we are to deal with the epistemic of science is hot topic, both within TEL (and early STS in education) and in subjects in which the relevance of other ways of knowing is under question. This study therefore tries to develop an approach that sets out from somewhere between two positions; that of a study like 'from letters to bites' by Francis Lee, which studies the production of truth within a technopedagogic paradigm of mass-individualization, and that of Vicki Macknight, who writes about the way creativity is done.

What they have in common is a concern with the sociomateriality of education as a co-productive of wider ideological debate (the size of the institutions and its related questions of control and intervention) and specific practices, organizations and competences. Neither do they rely upon large samples of cases, nor is the case within this study delineated according to comparative standards. My case is studied at an institutional level and the method has much in common with a comparative case method, but I also take inspiration from Sørensen and the theorization of the materialities of learning.. Maybe the writer who has been most radical in moving beyond a human centered approach..

Sørensen and Lee are among the pioneers within the study of STS in education in a new era. The period at the shift of the last decade saw the rise of a new form of internet technology, often thought of as new social media. This study follows up on this sense of ambition and tries to study these phenomena almost a decade later, when these digital phenomena has become part of everyday life within education.
The double relevance within education is therefore also matched by double relevance for 'social science' more generally; for the question of how to study the automatic production of data about the social outside of the social scientific apparatus, and the question of how education is to be understood as productive within the building of new competences and (i.e. civic) agency on an infrastructural level - or a new way of studying 'the nature of politics'.

##The study of new publics
I developed an interest for these questions by being part of a new public - someone working in the school system without being part of the society of teachers. I don't know if it is a new phenomenon, but my participation in the public was mediated by new technology and emerging interests in research. In other words my interests developed through my own first hand experience with a mobile learning regime.

Back at university I wrote about the way Learning Management Systems, such as itslearning, effected learning. I had almost no prior knowledge of educational research, so although LMS did not straight away appear as an obvious choice for a topic the overlap between learning and management became a way in. It turned out that very little had been written on the topic, something that seemed weird to me considering how widespread the technology was and how central I found the related concerns, both to my experience as a former teacher and as a student at a higher educational institution.

Having asked educational researcher that write on the topics of electronic accounting systems in education today I have been tipped about the writing about the topic because of its lack of attention. The topic was gaining relevance in hindsight, as questions of whether or not to install central measures for evaluation, communication and storing in the infrastructure... The problematization of these infrastructures happened in accordance with the rise of debates around new technologies, but also they opened up again old debates around technologies that previously had been black boxed.
The question that I had written about had been why most students and teachers appeared to have been seeing the LMS more as an administrative tool rather than a tool for learning. This was a failure in the technology and system, but as I showed the failure was important because the administrative work was largely structured around the educational reform which was having huge consequences far beyond the curriculum changes. The entire structure around the organization of the curriculum was changing. In a sense the technology behind the LMS had appeared to be overly stable. The same rudimentary functions that had characterized the technology when it appeared in the 1990s was still the primary experience today, causing quite a bit of outrage among students used to technologies that were one or two generations ahead. Adopting a systems perspective it was easy to put the blame on the rigidity of the public procurement process, in which no market was able to evolve among the actual users of the technologies. Be that students, pedagogic leaders (teachers) or school administrations. Yet, this was not a very satisfactory answer, seeing for example that the pleura of technologies available to users had been one of the starting points.

The Norwegian market had been saturated, but changes was happening in the sector at the time. An announcement had just come out that the largest Norwegian player, itslearning, had bought the next in rank, Fronter, and itslearning was now trying to position itself as one of the large international providers together with American competitors. On its website it was actually claiming to be one of the fastest growing technology companies in the world. So while the technology seemed unchanged from within the Norwegian education sector the rapid diffusion bore witness to the effect of socio-technical change elsewhere. Furthermore, behind the scenes the technology was undergoing development at the time that I was doing my research. I found out that significant changes would by applied

The technologies were on the one hand rudamentary adoptions of internet technologies, but were on the other spreading quickly as a result.
Through my research I found out that the stability of the technology also resulted from its international expansion.

emergence within the Norwegian school system had also stabilized them to the extent that they had

 And the story of  that had been developed by informatics students at the University of Bergen.





#Fixity: flexible standardization among heterogeneous digital devices

The question I started with was a question of whether the information system, the LMS, fixed the organization of learning in ways that undermined both the potential of the technology and the co-ordination of organizational heterogeneity. The development of a strategy leading to a new 'public' repository was co-produced together with the reform of the wider school system. The repository was co-ordinated hierarchically, meant to assure its integration with the knowledge management systems at an institutional level and retain certain propitiatory qualities, but clearly also aimed at standards of openness and the benefits of economies of scales that digital devices could afford. I think of this in terms of fixity, in which a technopedagogical complex re-assemble around new spatial configurations of scale and at the same time re-scribe meaning within and among materialities of learning as they circulate and relate differently.

I am especially interested in the translation of cloud computing technologies into the education system and I ask questions about the effects of third party, or automatic, calculations and analysis in the school setting.
Distance learning have been much talked about, and has become both an integral part of the education system and contemporary culture. How is distance learning related to the idea of virtual governance, and how is it done and translated through the multicitedness of new digital ICT. In other words, how is distance learning done within an 'automated socio-technical environment' (Lionas & Douglas, cited in Wood and Graham..), or how is boundaries and boundary work effected by 'the automatic production of space' (Thrift and French, 2001, cited ibid).

The idea of software sorting was for a long time invisible in my case, since much sorting happened manually. Nonetheless, these are questions of categorization and memory work, and the complexity of these practices should therefore not be underestimated. Work practices are intertwined with digital devices and algorithmically mediated calculative agency. I study how these forms of classing (separating and assembling) are mediated by care practices in which new learning and educational technologies emerge, and are co-produced together with a politics of design, learning and competence.

I ask how management accounting have effect on information systems. And as such I don't discriminate between digital devices and other human or non-human agents. I can quickly mention two reasons why these are particularly hard questions to study. First, information systems technologies are conceived of as exterior to organizations and are therefore thought to have effect on rather than (in any direct way) being effected by organizational strategy (...). Related to this first line of reasoning, the second reason is that STS (or ANT) challenge our conceptions of systems and give emphasis to the particularities (i.e. the actor-networks) that they are made up of - Being specific about technologies is important (mol and law)..

Like in Law and Mol's account, the question goes beyond the domestication of a technology, and in a sense turns the idea around. The question is how management accounting and a information system is co-produced. The thesis contends with four new technologies, that all are highly different but emerge (is implemented) together in a sort of complete (and highly ambitious) ICT strategy in Norwegian Education. In the case of the school I have studied these have been represented by Windows 365 (replacing a more traditional Learning Management System(LMSs)), Visma (a set of accounting systems that integrate Enterprise Resource Planing (ERP) systems with national and local student management systems (SMSs)), the SMART-board (an 'interactive' and costly whiteboard installed in each classroom), and Kahoot (a 'one-dimentional' and 'free' game assembled spontaneously through networks of smart-phones). Rather than taking the temporality of the information system for granted (assuming it to be external) I want to show how it is being performed (at an organizational level) and how it emerges as a consequence of 'overflow' (Callon ?) of the materiality of learning.

A distinction is therefore made between the materiality of learning and the materiality of education. The relationship between the two concepts have sometimes been treated unproblematic and theories developed according to the former have indiscriminately been adopted to the latter. I want to show that most educational research center themselves on the classroom, despite an increased attention to its relationship with other sociomaterial constellations. In a sense, these researchers have become more attuned to the spatial dimensions of the classroom, and Sørensen's account of the materialities of learning works both to highlight the multiplicity of spaces within the classroom and the multiplicity of classrooms as a technology in and off itself. I both want to show that not only are classrooms inhabiting a multiplicity of spaces (teacher desk, student desks, blackboards, project-posters, pedagogical posters, etc.) and not only are classrooms part of a multiplicity of spaces (political and geographic regions, economies, professional and local communities, cultural historical artifacts etc.), classrooms are also organizational achievements who represent enormous trials of strength for the technologies and bureaucracies who seek to govern them. They are part of an ecology of rooms, bound together by hallways, schedules, rules and norms, curriculums, pedagogies as well as networks of information technologies. The perspective is not a radical break with educational research, and in many ways it builds on the frameworks of sociomaterial accounts in the field. Yet, it emphasizes the non-educational aspects of the organization and asks how it is interwoven with larger technoscience..


The idea of fixity is meant as something that could be explored widely.
-If I would have my opening analytical chapter about three things; the negotiation of access (talking, planning, the letter, and the computer vs. the net), the learning materials as boundary objects and the classroom as an imagined space.
-Then fixity would be explored in the books as they fix knowledge objects such as concepts. I came to think of this as I was running and thinking of the difficulty of continuing discourse around i.e. health issues and training, as the ideas themselves are well understood in wide spread circles. Other ideas are science as spreading into society, while society at large are using scientific ideas (calculative devices). Fixity is then the ability to fix discourse to an idea or concept.

How does this differ, or how is it affected, as i.e. I see discourse change in the books at the library?
What difference does it make to study the multiplicity of calculative devices.. neither as single agents (like the making of values within natural disasters relief), nor as 'markets as collective calculative devices' (abstraction), but as non-settling activities of search.


##Imagining mobile learning
Instead of imagining the classroom, we flip the question around and ask how learning is imagined in that which is mobile. How can the blackboard be its own form of graphic artifact? How can it be a genre of writing and documenting that extends beyond the school, and into the various spaces of mobile education - virtual and non-virtual. By asking these questions I aim to take Keegan seriously. How is the mobile imagined within the classroom, and how does it relate to the locality of the group?

How is the mobile imagined within the classroom? Mobility is more than moving physically, that is with our individual bodies. The regulation of the space is also done through the movement of groups, or the relative circulation of epistemic objects that performs a learning trajectory. I observe the way that epistemic objects is performed into datascapes - representing its own kind of object - by studying teachers who separate (organize) group and network objects.



I turn back to itslearning to question how non-users effect technologies. The school I studied was using similar technologies, and my study bares witness to the way that windows controls developments in the 'ecologies' that is installed in its infrastructure. The non-user Bergnes is applying technologies in which they are trying to form alliances with through other constellations. So although it looked like the procurement strategies of the municipality was to blame, it is their active participation in a market in which they negotiate both with the teacher (unions), the technology providers and the national institutions that is co-constructing an strategy for innovation and an (political/bureaucratic control of) education through the implementation of a school reform. In many ways I choose to see these negotiations through the lens of cybernetic synchronization, boundaries of political economies and security, and through the mess designing (policies and technologies) for an 'information economy' reaching the front of the innovation curve.

On the other hand, I have chose to view these issues through the work of the teacher. In my essay on the LSP sector I concluded by pointing to the fact that the local networks that LMS affords the school had to be problematized. The know-how that shaped these networks most often came from outside the school, and a relatively clear distinction was upheld between the competencies of teachers and those of programmers. The way these internal networks were shaped was therefore of importance, and its analysis a missing piece in the study of education technology. These findings was also strengthened by the findings of another master thesis that was handed in at TIK in the spring that I wrote my research proposition. ...'s thesis questioned the effects that the 'free' diffusion of American MOOCs online would have on Norwegian education institutions. Despite the apparent newness of these 'education technologies' their in many ways resembled the materials of learning in place. Rather the question became on of how publicly funded institutions, like the University of Oslo, engaged with the controversy and hype. Disappointingly not many did, apart from on an intellectual level. The resulting study focused on an analysis of interviews with a few outliers, or enthusiasts. The results were relevant, but from my point of view mostly as an indicator of the lack of engagement with the controversy from a potentially influential actor - the Scandinavian school system.

As I as member of the new public surrounding the technopedagogic situation in the Norwegian school system, related questions arose as I tried to engage myself in the politics of pedagogic strategy at the University. Especially important was my position at the program-council, in which I was a student representative, at the Center for Technology Innovation and Culture.
It was in general hard to affect the transparency of these practices. It seemed that I could not get to the right level or forum to make sure that demands on routines were not put in place without further processes for checks to be put in place. Where were students to turn if decisions were not upheld? And, furthermore, how did could we influence the strategy that was put in place to meet our demands - the practices that the routines were meant to effect.
I heard from representatives in the central student council that they were working to come up with and agree upon an official stance towards the governments (national) budget and strategic reports. It was in a way interesting to gain insight into the machinery behind the official political processes through a small but well organized civic body like the student council, but they offered little help to those heterogeneous bodies of representatives distributed around at various institutions.
The strategy of new pedagogic models for development and participation was shone a bright light through the absence of the issue. The politics behind the design of new systems of learning was not associated with rise of new educational programs in these forums.

I therefore turned to the role of the teacher not only as a product of an education system, but as actors within the design both of pedagogy as well as information and communication systems. Bringing my experience from the compulsory education system into a where teaching comes secondary to other activities (an opposite relationship) highlighted the work teachers, policy makers, administrators and regulators do to co-ordinate activities across a huge network of institutions. The school sector is one of the largest sectors in modern state and economy. In my essay I had concluded by pointing to the knowledge system that went into creating standards for competence within the masses of teachers and I briefly reflected upon the effects of the protection of the title. But switching contexts and being part of the educational community at a higher level also shone new light on the influence of the pedagogic policy makers for the dissemination of principles of control. In a kind of post-foucauldian sense these principles disciplining was spreading throughout society, or, in this case, the higher educational institutions.


Sørensen raises the question of how materialities of learning takes part in the making of subjects. I choose to see Sørensen's account as a move beyond the foucauldian perspective. I ask not only how subjects are made, but how agency can come about through objectification, within a 'ontological choreography' (Cussins).

Althorugh the post-foucauldian account "opens up a critical space for exploring resistance, it is not conceived in terms of liberation from an oppressor; rather as an invention of alternatives to current governing practices" (McKee, 2009). McKee (p.471) as such referes to Rose et al. (2006: 100) and shows that 'studies of governmentality therefore refute "[T]he idea of resistance derived from the analytical framework of agency versus structure that has haunted so much contemporary social theory. After all, if freedom is not to be defined as the absence of constraint, but as a rather diverse array of invented technologies . . . such a binary is meaningless.

I however wants to show to how politics can become hidden in such accounts. McKee also show that the weakness of the foucauldian account is that it easily becomes centered on discourse, and is disconnected from empiricist approaches. He recommends a critical realist approach ethnography.
I want to argue that STS offers a distinct approach to this politics.
Like my own earlier approach to technological innovation system there is a danger that important aspects of the system in question lies hidden..

The perspective is doubtlessly important. For example, McKee (p.472) points to "Barbara Cruikshank’s (1994, 1999) work on The Will to Empower illustrates that far from being a form of radical politics aimed at enhancing citizen control, empowerment is itself a strategy of government and relationship of power concerned with creating self-governing subjects." Further, he (ibid) argues that "By defining welfare subjects in terms of what they lack (i.e. their inability to mobilize in their own self-interest), such ‘technologies of citizenship’ embody a productive form of power that aims to put others into action. Paradoxically, empowerment may embody regulatory as well as liberatory possibilities, for it involves reconciling the personal political projects of the ‘governed’ with the desires and plans of the ‘governors’"
Such a view resonates with the with idea of agency through objectification, and the ontological choreography.

The perspective still retain a certain human centeredness. McKee points to Dean's (1999: 37–8) statement that "An analytics of government is thus in the service not of a pure freedom beyond government... but of those ‘moral forces’ that enhance our capacities for self-government by being able to understand how it is that we govern ourselves and others. It thus enhances human capacity for the reflective practice of liberty, and acts of self- determination this makes possible, without prescribing how that liberty should be exercised."

I rather follow proponents of ANT in taking the materiality more seriously. Rather than studying the technopedagogy of mass-individualization I ask how the technologies of individualization play into the creation of new networks of networks.

Infrastructuring and the formation of publics in participatory design



My materialist stance differentiates itself from the post-foucauldian approach by virtue of not treating the *evaluation for learning* paradigm simply as something that intervenes into a local context. Rather it partakes in the making of the sociomaterial relations that it also intervenes into. Kunnskapsløftet does not only control the use and flow of information and learning materials, it also creates it.
