
The question I pose is how to apply the realist perspective that is put forward as an empirical approach to (post-)foucauldian analysis. The idea is to not assume that all have the same identities as citizens..

"Here, a ‘realist governmentality’ (Stenson, 2005, 2008) approach offers a useful way forward for theoretically informed, empirical researchers within the critical social policy tradition.... it emerged from within criminology to highlight the struggle for sovereign control of ( deviant) populations. Usefully... it advocates complementing discursive analysis of emergent governmentalities with localized empirical accounts of actual governing practices, which seek to regulate the conduct of specifically targeted populations. In doing so, it brings into focus the micro-practices of local initiatives
and the behaviour of local actors."(478)

I want to try to understand what is meant by the post-social society, and try to look beyond the social configurations that make up the "critical space in which to explore how central ‘plans’ are mediated from below" (480). This talk about the micro-level is hugely problematic, and I want to show that the idea arises because a lack of understanding towards networks.

To show how the material lens makes a difference to the networked- and social-self we have to understand the difference between the





In the first analytical chapter I will show to the two objects that I want to follow. The computer and the 'master document'.
In this process I want to show to significance of studying value as "the cohesive, transformative force that welds together geographies, life-forms and materials by means of social and technological mediations... a productive methodological starting point for understanding the process of environment-making in contemporary society"
Arboleda therefore proposes to supersede traditional engagements with the 'more-than-human', and appropriate the notion in order to lay bare the subversive elements already latent in it. He choses to focus on the labor process in which value is constituted, both as exchange value and as use value, and which sets in motion the possibilities for vibrant encounters between workers and technological infrastructures at a truly planetary scale. The labor process in inherently on of metabolic exchange where the material unity between human and nonhuman natures is concretely realized. Such encounters enable the possibility to hack and re-purpose technology in such a way that it does not serve the abstract imperatives of exchange value, but the embodied needs and potentials of use value. (9-10)
So although my encounter with the expensive 3D projector sensitized me to the notion of valuation processes, it seems unimportant in relation to the central power of the master-document. It is nevertheless important, but appears within a different system in which english-subject could be more perceptable to reform. It creates a point of intervention that could be seen as independent from that of the state, but which is historically intertwined. Among other things it establishes a form of independent model power - an observer - that actually inhabit some of the same properties as the English reform enacted by the teachers. So saying that english fits better with the code is not to see the technology. It is not to see the accounting systems that intertwine the space with the classroom configuration of visma flow and ROS.





#A minimal methodology

Presence is the post-human perspective as we have seen a key component of both knowledge and learning. In this chapter I will discuss how 'presence' emerged as an analytical object and how the co-construction of the analysis developed as a political object, or an arena for representation and negotiation.

Presence is a key issue within social science, as the scientific method demands the objective description (or prescription) or the factors (of causality) that is present in the means and meaning of a study.

Furthermore, presence is also important in the negotiation of access and the work of mapping networks in industrial societies. The mapping of issues has emerged as one alternative, where issues are formed by the mediating effect of different forms of 'communicated presence' (attachment). Yet, within industrial networks these communicative channels are done through the complex dynamics of information infrastructures and sharing.
When studying the networks between schools the guy who mapped the formation of different forms of attachments between teachers-problems, teachers-solutions and schools-society saw different ways in which issues became formed as a result of the work of teachers-professionals and experts. We cannot assume that the teachers do not use the same theories as us and are not active in the interventions in experimental settings.

Rather than the setting in which the presence of the investigator is normalized my approach show that there are several other ways in which the status of the investigators could become 'emergent' and contextualized. The hallway situation, and my relationship with my former students, showed that the willingness to adapt to the informal, evolving and uncertain environment that many anthropologists do is just as much part of the socio-material approach. The stabilization of the classroom as an epistemic objects or analytical space is done in such cases by interpreting the idea of the 'object institution' as a materiality of education rather than materiality of learning. Tobias Roehl (2012) for example describe how the 'things' shape and are shaped by human practices by selectively being presented within a social situation and transforming the school lesson so to put into effect knowledge. The way that they are selectively presented is therefore described and implicitly analyzed as meaningful within the space of the classroom, making the material objects visible. Roehl referres to Latour and borrows the terminology of the socio-material assemblage in which human actors and material objects are entangled, yet the idea of that materiality is firmly placed within the classroom and his idea of the disassembling the classroom therefore becomes prescriptive. It does not do methodological work, but describes it. Another way of looking at it is that he shares Latour's lack of sympathy with the modern enthnographer and the 'estrangement' (p.113) with the material accounts of the nineteenth century - an estrangement with objective descriptions of society - his classic ANT account does little to better the lack of 'estrangement'. Rather a lot of emphasis is put on the value of the objective turn in the study of education. Learning as such is left unproblematic, or simply an effect of 'educatoinal practices'. Non-educational practices continue to define our view of the student-pupils as 'not knowing' individuals, an imaginary that play into the idea of *semiotic resistance* (a term Roehl seem to define) in which material resistance is overcome.

In this chapter I try ask questions about the way the spaces of education mediates my own presence as a researcher and observer. In a sense I am trying to borrow Latour's skepticism and ask questions about what is done at the location and why; I ask what is being produced. More than just asking what the materialities of learning are, I ask what is done with these materialities at this location and how their mobility is related with the work and care in the organization and in relation to its associations, or beneficiaries, beyond the location and organization.
I am interested in exploring the metaphors of flow. *Law's critique of classic ANT* The movement of objects, in, out and between spatial and temporal spaces. I hoped to study the school not simply as one location, but as an ecology of spaces existing within and circulating through the dimensions of this set of locations. These boundaries are most easily described by the physical properties of the building and this is where I will begin my analysis.
However, I ask how these spaces are manifested as public and/or private in the transition between these spaces how these relationships play into the temporality of a teacher's working life; the high levels of responsibility in the life of a teacher and the valuation of such 'access' as competence (underpinning professional autonomy) and as technoscientific knowledge objects in markets that extend beyond the school system (as a assemblage of individual institutions).
