
**Boundary making**

-(Re)constructing the boundary between the local and the national

In the seminar I see how the regional is enacted as something impartial in the politics of the local. It therefore establishes a common ground for comparison, which is independent of the moral technologies of the subject itself. 


**The seminar**

*The debth learning seminar is one example of a hybrid forum that I study as a sitatuion of world-making that encompases the experimental culture of the learning ecology.* 
-By studying learning ecologies I question how digital environments are enacted as fluid and how institutional dynamics are co-modified by the work of fascilitating these new virtual objects. 


3 mathetmatics teachers and I get into a car as I join them on their seminar down the valley. I only know the buzz word, which I am following. The guy leading the seminar, Simon, has driven in from Bærum country to talk about depth learning in mathematics. There has been held seminars on the topic earlier while I was doing by ethnography but I missed those. Supposedly the others were highly theorectical, and textual. This seminar was supposed to be more hands on. 



In many ways the seminar was about the local ecology of maths resources. The teachers I came down with was supposed to share their experiences there with the rest of the staff, or at least the maths teachers. There were also teachers from all the other schools in the county participating. 

Simon wants to focus on how to deal with uncertainty and the epistemology of maths. He attacks the ethics of shaping instructions around the design of the exam, because the quantification of the curriculum leads to abstraction that is not accounted for. He underscores the fact that although teachers are used with dealing with these values in numbers it is a heavily culturaly enbowed practice. The bottles themselves did not become numbered, and it was the work of inscribing these values onto what ever means of answering that was too readily being automated.

The teachers are hoping that the seminar would provide them with the means to plan maths classes, but are somewhat disappointed about the result. Instead Simon was pushing the teachers to pay attention to the message that was put forward in the government agenda. He challenged the teachers to follow the legalistic struggle that was happening between the moral technologies of the national legal institutions and the regional administration. 

Efforts to standardize the way that teachers saw indicators of learning was poized against efforts to measure learning quantitatively. The reaction to the standardized tests, which compared results across regions and countries, had been severe. In the early 2000s the first tests caused a shock among regulators who, like most others in the country, had thaught..  Over the last decade this model of autonomy had been reformed. Incread testing was however also coinsidental with renewed efforts to make establish standards for the way learning was to be understood. To make evaluation practices fairer the government would emphasize the rights of the students to have their ability tested in a fashion most suitable to them. This would become known as the practice of 'evalutation for learning'. 


