
**School regions as boundary and ecology**

The 'debth learning' seminar is one example of a hybrid forum that I study as a sitatuion of world-making that encompases the experimental culture of the learning ecology.

By studying learning ecologies I question how digital environments are enacted as fluid and how institutional dynamics are co-modified by the work of fascilitating these new virtual objects. This way the objects that are meant to compute actions in the basis of generalized models of the world become defined through the environments that perform as the ecology that its evolution (computirization) is defined against. 
*This concern with the materiality with that which is coded I take from Star and Bowker, and I base my theoretization of the computer as such upon the premise that the computer originally refered to a person that did the coding of events and translated social situations into text, codes or numbers.*
-Is it therefore fair to assume that the computerization of education activities depends upon the co-construction of such coding practices among machines and students to move the work of coding on to the 'self-regulating' student?

Theoretically this approach is related to Asdal's work on documents of that officially sanciton the work of an industry conserned with innovation. Instead of studying a document I study the codification of the classroom. In Asdal's study the documents co-modifies science (the fish), the market and governance mechanisms. So does the token. It co-modifes pedagogy (the learning), the EdTech market (by defining the users of technology in education) and governance mechanisms.

However, digital codes are dynamic. While establishing some things as true (such as who was pressent, or what activity was performed) it could be represented differently in different contexts. I therefore want to show how the school region is enacted as the basis for compa	rison and positivistic forms of governance in a pedagogic experimental system. 

In this chapter I endevour to show how the classroom is constructed as one place. This is not new. It has necessarily been so as it is subject to a particular legal framework, and enforced through the authority of the teacher. Here I therefore point out how boundary work among teachers has served as the basis for the reconfiguration of the relationship between center and periphery. 



**8.2.**

That which is happening in the forum - the focus on the right of the teacher to make the *final* evaluation, ordering the teacher above the regional councel's office (governor of regional municipality) and furthermore positioning their authority above the supervision of the administration, who's work (databehandling) is being checked by the regional councel's office. 







