


Ch.2. 

Economization and the fascilitation of the high tech - vs the low tech (visma).

How did the policy of competence control work? 
How was a common good defined?






**Social symetry**

(insert points simulating Callon)
-
-
-
However my approach was more grounded, and that which was not known was how to account for materiality of the virtual space.



**Windows 365**

Windows 365 is an operating system that radically altered Microsoft's strategy in relation to the PC. These systems formed a virtual cloud, performing a sort of external and internal association. I try to follow this cloud as a form of object institution, or a sociology of associations. 

Operating systems have played a crusial role in the history of computing and software as its abstraction. More specifically the history of operating systems have been intimately associated with the history of the Personal Computer. The question is now whether operating systems in general is being detached from the personal computer. Or, put differently, were programs being detached from operating systems, and the operating system substituted for something else?

Computer programs are familiar to most of us, as they were shaped into objects in the era of the computer-based operating system. These are now being abstracted, as I learned while becoming part of the community of geeks. 




**Hardware and the subject/object paradox**

In the school I visited the circulation of other forms of personalized computers, like smartphones, but also other devices like smartwatches, tablets etc. were visible, and so was the issue of how these were going to be included in the discpipline of 'education'.

These came in addition to the rest of the digital infrastructure in the building. Or, more specifically, I was witnesing how the PC was being distinguished from the rest of the digital infrastructure. 

Ownership questions and the paradox of translation...
-I actually saw the infrastructure act as different forms of education material in different rooms, and it was the computers were not locked away, but circulated 'freely' through these spaces that was interesting; an aliance between the 'fast' laptop, the carefree student, and the interoperability standards of different rooms.






**Following software around the 'virtual' collective (the school building)**


-So how was programs that was part of the cloud distinguished from those that were not? 
-How can I study the collective by studying the software as interface?
-How can I study the collective without first also being part of all the spaces that constitute the interface?
-The interface as boundary object.




*Onenote*
The program idealized an image of 'shared' notes. Notes have been associated with books, and a certian kind of temporality. 

In conversations with the pedagogic and administrative supervisors the program was pointed to again and again. It was the platform binding together the two office spaces..

I witnessed onenote being used and discussed in relation to books, and the 'virtual' display of the notebook being or infront of the digital textbook. There were seldom more than one screen, and the automation of split screens were both discouraged by the size of the computer and the unavailability of the programing languidge in the operating system and among the digital literacy education. 

The persistant centrality of the software in the Microsoft ecosystem had surprised me! How had such an technology been lying latent in the software for so many years, to then suddenly expand, first into the work of the office and then into the classroom and the heart of the education practice? Again, the 'windows' metaphore was central in the display of 'inter'-activity. The SMART-board was a display of the image everyone could access. It was also clear that the teacher could perform a search, and plaster the image on to the screen. The 3D-projector was evidence that they had in fact the capacity to download and interact with representations of 'real' organisms.

They shared an 'ecology' of ordered educational resources. 

Why was the experience so limited? This became evident as the old practice of the looking through the microscope was being discussed. A practice that disciplined the participants to organise in pairs, and to use the instrument carefully to witness the event in the right way. But moreover also to preserve the experience for others. In preperation for the ethnopraphy I had read about the 'affordance' or the digital experience in which the experience of being part of a scientific endevour was throught to be transferable within the models of knowledge on the internet.. However, it was quickly becoming evident that materiality of the 'becoming' itself had to be orgnised, just like it had been in the examples openness in the virutal educational spaces in the US (and seen from the perspective of Pala Alto, aka Silicon Valley). 


At one side the room, facing the windows, were other 'fascinating' models on display. Models that been there for as long as I could remember, and that represented the kinds of models that were in use among 'realist' professionals like (if not 'in particular') doctors. Even though the room was built to fascilitate discussions within whole groups at the round tables in the back, I guessed at that such (what in my quess would seem rare) experiences would have had to be reserved for when they were 'playing' with models (digital or analogue) to be 'built' in groups. Not models that were to be deconstructed, or fragile models of reality. The models behind the glass were not educational material. 





*Onedrive*

Served as a cloud-storage fascility for students. A virtual database, that replaced the website structure of MLG. A driver..

The use of onedrive was in many ways in opposition to the idea of the shared notebook. Here I witnessed how texts were writen by students by effect of the instructions of the educational material (teacher and textbook) and LMS administered by the teacher.

The program allowed for self-regulation of a specific kind. One that extended the metaphor and the network of homework, as a Microsoft identity permiated the boundaries of the school.

Nor was the fact that onedrive was used obvious. The picture task in the example in which the girls were using one drive could be accounted for and saved on onenote using a phone app. However, multimedia technologies - for example allowing videos, documents etc. to be plastered next to eachother in 'notes' - was difficult to share. What do I mean by that? One would have to share an common platform and/or identity token. This it turns out is of great significence. The text document could be shared with a form of legitimacy, because it 'fixed' in the approapriate sense the words that were being typed. The 'image' is as such hard to 'containarize', or to align in the process of co-ordination among the students. 

Even social media platforms in use were sending documents, not 'images' or collaborative spaces, such as github.com. An infrastructure deeply ingrained in the mechanisms of the internet. Or more specifically, a popularization of 'git', a technology that supported the construction of the internet itself and the 'free software' movement's reliance on Linux.

This became evident in another episode in the same class (hour), when a group of boys working together in a 'group' was wrongly identified. Or more specifically, it turned out that the profile (if having agency) had accessed the wrong instructional room. The profile had trespassed. Not between the spaces of the building - the task might for what I knew have been conducted in the same room in the building (or on the moon) - but between the temporal spaces of 'years', levels and/or age-categories. 

The insident in the homework-class had invoked a freakish sensation that I noticably repressed by pushing the responsibility off the teacher, programmer, IT-supervisor, or anyone else who could handle the uncertainty. Was the student re-organizing files that belonged to anyone eles, or that were kept in order for a (potentially important) future accounting practice? Or were they able to access the profile of a teacher, and were we (including Microsoft, the computer, and the municipality's information infrastructure) complacent in crime? I kept on asking whether the name that showed up above the folder that the document had been shared in was that name of a teacher. After a while, when I had left them on their own to take care of the class, they came up to the front of the room and said that they had identified the name as one of the girls in the parralel class in which the student had worked on a project with two years ago. 

Moreover, the fact that the PC itself performed best as a multimedia device had been similarly evident in the example of the science group's use of onenote. 



- The idealized image of the cloud might be problematized by thinking about the fact that the virtual resources were not accessed according to necessity. What would such necessity look like?




*Sharepoint*
Sharepoint was in practice the LMS, and the site that substituted MLG. Both platforms work as a sort of internet website, but has some of the properies of an Intranet typical of cloud platforms. This structure is typified by the way that it folded MLG onto itself. 

Sharepoint was not easy to navigate because of its manyfold structure. One had to go back to branch out into another virtual space, even though these spaces shared much in terms of anologue materiality. For example, the similarity of groups.

In other words, sharepoint was the same administrative space that MLG and other LMS before them had been. 

- A teacher told me about how the kidds could have endless groups that were invisible to others.


*Sokrates* 
Adopted in 2016?? It was late to be adopted and in many ways functioned poorly as too many clicks and long lists put toll on the teachers work. I have a document that specifies complaints by the teachers too the municipality and the company. This long chain of relations could at least include; textbooks, students, operative system, Internet protocols and communication applications, week schedules, administrative systems, user-catalogues, identification tokens, teachers, teachers unions, school administration, documentation procedures, municipality (which in this study will remain an opeque entity), and the Microsoft certified company Engage.

The program was mediating the end of the practice of 'local' computing. 

The program had replaced other programs that were too unstable, or permiable. The insident long ago had been a reminder of the restrictions, or friction, of openness.

- Messages were being shared by the contact teacher. These could have been more easily shared among the relevant groups of staff using sharepoint, as sharepoint works as a social network. However, because of the lack of accountability with the contact teacher it was not..






**(Re)ordering (or uprooting) the local**

-The law as moral technology.
-The imaginations of mobility and informed bodies. 
-'Beslutning' (decision) or 'avgrensning'(deliniation)









**Externalizing programs for the use of us studying them**







