
**9.2. Final chapter overview**

I have been at Bergnes and done yet another day of ethnography and substitute teaching. As a result I was able to do observations with a hightened sensitivity, or reflexivity. I understood what I was looking for, and now I am struggling with how to work with my original observations. I am also struggling with the idea of how I am to continue using the materials throughout the paper, and not simply mention in at the beginning before it looses relevanse as I go out in the world. My way of coming back to the school is suitable with my aim at showing how local universality is mediated by standards - and the social life - of meta-data.


In line with my approach to metodological minimalism I now turn to my original strategy. I am going to study mediation within the classroom, and then explain how accountancy shapes the life of the technology and interactive practrices in relation to these opinions. This is the translation of learning materials into with which students account for their learning, and teachers evalute 'for' that accounting practice 'through' their pedagogic/educational 'technologies'. 

- Like the mediators of group interview, teachers, as mediators of group creative techniques (via technology), presence is key the key to her or his mediation of the groups political economy. 


Now I observed that interactivity could be explained through the observation that the students activity is hidden by virtue of the screens virtual from. The fact that tactile handling of information, such as drawing the table around the maths piece. 
*How is it related to the history of the pencil for example?*
In the mathsclass I never saw the use of Kikora, even through it was on the schedule. The maths teacher readjusted the plan to engage with some tasks all together at the beginning of the class and we all ended working with describing the abstraction within the numbers that were to be writen in 'potens', comparing a whole number (1) with percentage. 


Interactivity is therefore a topic I could return to in my later analysis, just like Bauer originally recomended. The accounting of such forms of teaching is changing (as the (continual) construction of boundary objects in the classrooms also change). A teacher is increasingly having a reflexive role which help the children demonstrate indicators of learning, when one is writing something in a word document or powerpoint that is easily filling in blanks by searching up the information online. Copy pasting information from online.

*When I asked the child to expand on the idea of water solvent liquids inside the cell I wanted her to give an account of the value of the function for the cell, suggesting that the solvent ensured an even distribution of the juices. I hoped to be able to give an more lively account. In the end I therefore talked alitle about the questions of consqiousness in cells.*

I described this by pointing to the 'demonstration indicators of learning' as oposed to text generes; because indicators of learning is the accounting as the indicators of learning is the key to the reform process in the school in which the reflexive position of the teacher is strengthened by virtue of the practice of showing (i.e. presentations) an opinion through i.e. your own words vs. copy paste. 

*New genres might be emerging, but the difference between a presentation of facts and opinions vs. the article is that the article lives a life of its own out in the world (this was however covered in the native language class).*



**Structure**

In the first chapter I want to introduce the reform, but could I do this in a minimalist fashion while covering accounting practices in the chapters leading up to my discussion on interactivity. This will work as an approach to boundary object in the lager institutional landscape. 


The minimalist account begins by describing my 'experiences as a substitute teacher', and my observations and position in putting forward (introducing) a set of instructions. Like Latour I don't attend to previously explicated people, objects or places, and I therefore don't attend to the theoretical significance of my case, but let such significance evolve through my study and involvement. 

I could say that I am investigating a user study. The classroom situation can only be **imagined** as a userstudy as understood as co-performed by the education technology and the pedagogues. Like in Lazagne's original study I observe how the 'user group' is constructed and/or co-modified through the mediation of a circulating set of opinions. Lesagn points out that such a 'set' is mediated - interpreted and chategorized - in ways that lets itself be fashioned in the circulation through organizations. 

This is my starting point, and I try to follow the materiality of these inscriptions beyond the conversation, the political economy of the classroom, and the presence of the teacher with the students. I focus on the imagination of presence (the aim of a practical pedagogy education and therefore much theory). I want to study the information infrastructure and therefore follow the user through **the authentification mechanisms of the inscription device**. The log-in mechanism that fascilitate the user-account.  

In the reflection over what is allowed and not in the co-reflexivity of the classroom I am reflexive about the experience of 'having' authority in this political economy - the co-construction of my competence within the organization and emergent legitimacy. This is very well known, as it touches upon the role of classroom leadership as an act of longitudial associations and the basis for (debth) learning.

This is well documented, but I want to go beyond this and say that the legal(istic) 'work' involved in this bureaucratic process has a larger role in the circulation of accounting devices, and the system in which self-productivity is a form becomes necessary by virtue of the distribution of messages. 

It reproduces governance through the framing of objectivity (beging the question of whether one should stick to the foucauldian quest rather than being post-foucauldian)
; i.e. the trivialization of critique and the weakness of the experiential approach to 'contradiction'.
*If the job of the teacher is to fascilitate translation, then where does it leave the 'self-regulating student'?*


I don't want to go straight to the theorizing the relationship between the personal and group presence. This could rather be done in the later chapters as I theoretizise the meaning of professionalization. 

I then move from the classroom to the (subjective role of) teachers, to return to the relationship between the teacher and the administration in the boundary work of the organisation of platform. I begin by following the teacher around to describe her/his relationship with the administration. Then I want to move outwards from the subject-teaching, to the effort to develop a national system in the local, and then to the topic of the co-construction of pedagogic- and subject-development. 

In this regard I want to talk both about the research workshop and the pedagogic seminar. The point of discussing such together is that the topic of the boundary object is emerging in relation to technology. I follow the issue as it is being politicized through these processes. In the school I am somewhat aware of what I want to say, but what did it help my understanding of the school to attend the workshop? 

In the workshop there is also a combination of laypeople and workshop. Some are laypeople simply by not being part of the wider school system, but simply attending to education within the context of their own institution or subject-tradition. 

*This is also problematized by the girl who studies of feedback; looks at how information becomes hidden*

I want to argument that what is happening is that they are working theoretically to be able to fascilitate the prolonged experience of play as they study "poetic ontologies". Such non-closure is adapt to the extension of boundaries between institutions - and Experties across institutional dynamics. 

At the same time there are others that pick out discussions and theoretical work among students that is similar to the theoretical discussions in Simon's seminar, but in which some are more preoccupied with describing the materiality of learning as something that is used (in learning) and others problematize feedback as something different; something non-material.

Moreover, useful knowledge is demarcated by these boundaries. The ontological, ANT, and the reflexive move, is treated socio-materially, and remain a-political. This talks to my experience of the literature. For example classical ANT has problematized the work of valuation in the process of developing education technology, but ontology and openness is now starting to be problamtized in relation to the deeper paradoxes of knowledge within the educational system. 

Yet, the post-human move itself is not understood in relation to the materiality of feedback. The imagination that the affordances of educational technologies might be theorized still dominate, despite the fact that the individual experiment clearly produces a typolocy instead of attending to the specifics of the technology. It is however described as open, as pointed out that it is different than the technology inherent in a schools own system. 

When I have talked about the distribution of accountability and the effort to intervene into the market, this creates a necesity for an administrator and the question of 'who the user is' is associated with 'de facto' standardization. Before attending to the way the semantic body is cared for this description of the treatment of the poetic move might be an example of care for the open.


**4. the learning committee**
The biodigital child must from the perspective of the cyborg be understood in relation to semantic approach what I have talked about in my account of the de facto standard and Activity data. In the learning Comitee the representation of the school region - the boundary object - they are concerned with being able to generalize and produce science through a larger dataset and scalability. This results in their concern with activity data, in which learning data is disciminated from teacher analytics etc. 

The region is the boundary object. Instead of theorizing how this episode at Simon's seminar was a form of boundary work my observations here make clear how the region has agency. How the state and government relates to the region and how the teacher must associate with it. The 'space of action' (handlingsrom) or the spatiality of agency must be understood in relation to the political structure of educational governance in the region and the **agencification of this virtual space** (in a sense all such space is virtual as it is multiple).


**5. Uninett**
Here the semantic body is understood by the fact that to record activity data the division must be enacted among the institutions and the national network that adapts to the transnational boarder that the region also represent as an experimental system and adopter of transnational standards in its governance practice and performance of the law. 

Administrators is accountable to the politics that has emerged and externalized. Through infrastructuring such politics becomes explicit, and I am now studying the weakness of regulation and survaillance (as the weakness of the administrator). This territory of survaillance and their responsibility for its weakness as becoming accountable to the political technologies of the government. 


**Conclusion**
In my concluding chapter I therefore return to what I talked about yesterday; that caring for weakness is instrumental to the construction of standards of progression. This is natural as I follow the log-in token. When theorizing progression one has to turn the idea of the human (what it becomes) on its head. In the interestment of progression tokens what one does not know or is not able to do is also made explicit. An important argument is that mobility is not new, but it is the integration and regulation of flow. 

It deals with the problem of separating practical knowledge (subject) from functionary knowledge (pedagogue; accounting for learning), and gamification and objectivity as something that is shaped along with the reflexive role of the teacher and continuous evaluation schema. 

The agencification of virutal space (and the group) is tied to the non-agencification of such space. The game is tied to mutability and the construction of weakness, but is part of the mediation of mutability at a political level; from the classroom to outer space. 



*There can be several LMS; PaaS demonstrates this. Yet, it is significant to show how it is different than SaaS and IaaS. Applications that are non-agencified, such as Kahoot and google, is treated/valued similarly though they are very different; they are treated as doing one thing, as a 'technology'. This is the same conclusion as in the classic ANT study of educational technology, but it attends to the question of the life of the technology-multiple in the wider system and the construction of a market as a general social relation*
