
## Eksternaliseringen av relasjonen med eleven

Ludvigsen-utvalget var mer agnostiske i deres uttalelser om de epistemologiske og ontologiske konsekvensene av fagfornyelsen som prosjekt. Dette var også viktig politisk. Dette har Dale beskrevet som instrumentalistisk

Det lokale læreplanarbeidet var sentralt i LK06, for at lærere kunne sies å opptre som forskere. **En del av dette var kanskje å integrere i seg konstruktivistiske synspunkter, assosiert bla. med en reaksjon mot bruken av vitenskap til å standardisere opplæringen.** Konstruktivismen hadde vokst frem når lektorer arbeidet med å utvikle et eget kunnskapsgrunnlag der en forsøkte å se faget fra elevenes perspektiv. Slik ... beskriver var konstruktivistisk læringsteori som oftes forstått i relasjon til en kognitiv læringsteoretisk tankegang.

Utvalget knyttet også dette til et vitenskapelig og teoretisk grunnlag som jeg også ønsker å belyse i noe lengde:

*«I dag er det bred enighet om at læring ikke skjer ved passivt å «absorbere» kunnskap, men at det er en prosess der den lærende selv er aktiv. Lærings-teoretikere legger vekt på litt forskjellig sider av denne prosessen, men det rådende grunnsynet er at den lærende selv må utvikle sin egen kunnskap gjennom en aktiv handling med å innarbeide og lagre det nye stoffet. Dette skjer ved at det nye på en eller annen måte knyttes til de forestillinger og kunnskaper som allerede er der fra før. Ofte brukes ordet «konstruktivisme» om dette rådende, overordnete synet på læring. Den generelle delen av læreplanen har flere formuleringer som tydelig viser en tilslutning til dette synet...  Undervisning med-fører ikke nødvendigvis læring, derfor gir det liten mening å snakke om at læreren kan «lære bort» noe.» (s. 15)*

Hva var dette som elevene knyttet kunnskapen opp imot? Var dette globalt eller lokalt? Det var forsått som virtuelt, utenfor sosial vitenskapen knyttet til utdanning.


### 'Emergence'

#### Distributed Cognition

The field of distributed cognition, originally developed by Edwin Hutchins (1995),
is concerned with ways that the tools, methods, and objects we interact with may
be seen as part of our thinking processes and extensions of our minds into the
world. Rather than thinking of cognition as an internal process of thought, pro-
ponents of this perspective observe that memories, facts, and knowledge may be
reified and embodied in objects and other people we interact with. In many cases,
the environment places constraints on our thinking and behaviour, or influences
us to think and behave in certain ways and, in many cases, is an integral part of
thinking. Objects and spaces are participants in the cognitive process, not simply
neutral things that we use, but an inextricable part of how we think and learn,
both as individuals and as connected groups (Salmon & Perkins, 1998). S. Johnson
provides a nice illustration of this: he talks of the successful landing of a plane
damaged by geese as “a kind of duet between a single human being at the helm of
the aircraft and the embedded knowledge of the thousands of human beings that
had collaborated over the years to build the Airbus A320’s fly-by-wire technol-
ogy” (2012, Introduction, Section 2, para. 10). Knowledge is not just held within
the artificial intelligence that guides the aircraft—although the subtle interactions
with the autopilot do play a role—but in the design of controls, seats, and other
artifacts through which pilots, co-pilots, and others interact with one another and
the vehicle (Hutchins & Lintern, 1995; Norman, 1993). Similarly, we as individuals
offload some of our cognition onto the objects around us—the organization of
books on a bookshelf, the things we lay out on our desks, the pictures on our
walls, and the cutlery in our kitchen drawers, all act as extensions of our minds
that both reflect thinking and engender it. As Churchill (1943) said, “We shape our
buildings and afterwards our buildings shape us.”
Distribution not only applies to unthinking objects but also to us and the
people around us: cognition is a social process where different people play dif-
ferent roles, leading to the distribution of knowledge within a group or network
of people (Salmon & Perkins, 1998). A simple demonstration of this is the loss
of cognitive capacity that occurs when couples split up or one partner dies. The
remaining individual will have come to rely on their partner to remember things,
perform activities from washing dishes to doing accounts, and vice versa, a process
sometimes described as “socially distributed remembering” (Sutton, Harris, Keil,
& Barnier, 2010). Whether in intentional organizations or looser networks, this
socially distributed remembering allows us to do more and think further (S. E.
Page, 2011).

#### Connectivism

«Connectivism presents a model of learning that acknowledges the tectonic shifts in society where learning is no longer an internal, individualistic activity. How people work and function is altered when new tools are utilised. The field of education has been slow to recognise both the impact of new learning tools and the environmental changes in what it means to learn. Connectivism provides insight into learning skills and tasks needed for learners to flourish in a digital era.» (Siemens, 2005)
«The pipe is more important than the content within the pipe. Our ability to learn what we need for tomorrow is more important than what we know today. A real challenge for any learning theory is to actuate known knowledge at the point of application. When knowledge, however, is needed, but not known, the ability to plug into sources to meet the requirements becomes a vital skill. As knowledge continues to grow and evolve, access to what is needed is more important than what the learner currently possesses.» (Siemens, 2005)
