
IT ansvarlig
I finally manage to grab hold of Alex, the IT guy. He's a former programer. A calm and contemplative guy who's always on the move. I follow him to his office after meeting him in the hallway. His office is messy and large. A workspace, not simply an office. There are computers opened up with parts lying loose. There are stacks of extra computers, and a playstation I wonder about.
Alex is telling me that some of the students at the year ten have voiced their dissatisfaction with the use of digital textbooks at opprop.no (petition.no). We are discussing the app that William told me about, which they are trying to use to let students download their books onto their computers to relieve them (and their teachers) of problems with wifi-connections and the log-in. William had been walking around the classroom and logged on to his own account to download files on each and every computer. However, even this slow process was of restricted use because as it turned out such 'common accounts' filled up - they had a limit put onto them.
Many of the students already had Microsoft accounts that they set up for their playstation at home that they somehow could use (Did they make more of these?). Otherwise, logging in with their Feide account would show what books that the students had access to.
I immediately took interest in Feide. I was all too familiar with the system to have questioned its origin, since its a national system built to give an user-id and to student accounts at all educational institutions. The students use it. I use it at the university, and all the other teachers and I used it from when I first started. The Feide-ID (inn-logging) has to be registered in the operating system - 'not before' - for security reasons. Nevertheless, to get onto Microsoft's 'productivity software'(wikipedia) on Office 365 (cloud/online) one still had a couple of options - either through the link (saved at desk top) at the Municipality's webpages or through Microsoft's own webpages.
I don't want to dig into the details and try to use the opportunity to get him to explain some of the potential in the system. We look at some of the programs included that I don't know. There are many in the new ecosystem. 'Sway' is one used at primary school as a heir to powerpoint using layouts for a new generation of writers/presenters, such as for blog. He also tries to show me one of the more technically savvy programs - the powerapps. He tries to find a mathportal he made as an experiment, but can't find it and just says that it probably had potential but that the experience was a little confusing because he was used to program with the use of 'objects'.
I get somewhat frustrated with our inability to communicate these systems' relevance to his job and to central issues within the organization. I try asking about visma, as if it is something lying 'behind' all of these technical developments (like financial interest).
I want to understand how Visma plays into all of this but he simply presents the other programs they they pay for, other than Visma flyt that I already know. Neither does he know anything much about the transfer from MLG to Office 365 (organizational or technical). The only thing he knows is that a messaging (melding hjemmefra) function is being tested.
He can however tell me about one time an issue (a question of where one of the students' work had gone) had risen through the ranks of the Microsoft system. Some person from Microsoft in Germany had called the teacher to ask questions, before the teacher by accident found all the work in the trash-folder.
He can also tell me about how the consultancy firm that developed (adapted) the package to the (stated) needs of the municipality told him that the difficulty of incorporating these programs into the routines of the organization (work of teachers) was because of teachers 'using these functions in the wrong way'. Being a programmer himself he had taken issue with these statements. He was of the opinion that the issues was not of a technically advanced nature and that the low level of usability was indeed a (technical) problem.
For example, environments that teachers could use to communicate with a group in used to be class-subject specific - meaning that there was an endless list of groups with 2003A maths... (lacking necessary detail).
Alex tells me about several such examples and looks for a document in which he and some teachers listed all their complaints and sent it back to the ICT-department in the municipality. He had given up communicating with the consultancy firm, which was a certified microsoft partner (and supposedly good?). Perhaps the mistake was at a different level. He felt that the fact that he had communicated with someone with the title 'time-thief fighter' at the consultancy said a lot about their level of ambition.
They hadn't received any answers. He recommended me to go down there. I took interest in why they had chosen to have such a local department rather than allying up with larger department in the city which was its neighboring municipality and which most other municipalities did.
What is clear is that the terrible internet connection at the building was causing a lot of difficulties for all these applications to run without failure on the cloud. The contract that was signed at the school was ten years old. It was about to run out, and had been stuck at incredibly low 100mb/p.s. It would go up to 10gb. *The contract is not dynamic.

Turning back to Alex' role at the organization and what surrounded me at the office we started talking about all the things lying. He tells me about an achievement that he recently had in which he figured out that he could replace computer screens and that way save the organization a substantial sum of money. 'The guys down at the ICT-department doesn't spend time figuring out how to do these things (issues related to practicalities of the school-environment). If it doesn't affect the warranty they don't bother to try as hard figuring whats wrong. It's still a government job you know. They get their paycheck no matter.' Alex had gone online and found out that he could buy the parts he needed from China online and a technically gifted student had installed them. 'The principle had said that he needed to be 'activated', since he otherwise tended to be up to no good. It was much better having him do something useful'.
These technically adept kids are not otherwise to easy to deal with. Sometimes computers have been 'booted' (starting elementary processes in the operating system) from external USB-drives. At other schools in the area computers had to be thrown away after students managed to change the password in the bios and forgot. I confirmed that I had recently heard a tech savvy acquaintance of mine say that he had done the same thing in exams (using programs to close down external-networks). Here they didn't even have to do that Alex said. Teachers usually forgot checking simple things such as whether any external networks had appeared from mobile-phone hotspots.
I asked him to tell me more about his work. How, he made sure the computers were all up to date for example. He said that most of the work now happened automatically. When computers need service they book through the wifi. A lot happens view the Onedrive Business infrastructure.
