
##Theory and theoretical aims

Here I will present the theoretical aim of the thesis. To explicate a theoretical aim is rather rare among STS researchers, but this is of course a practical adaptions that inform the work I do. Moreover through, it is also meant to develop a critical epistemology - critical towards the translation of STS consepts between contexts. I follow Estrid Sørensen's (2009) and her formulation of her own work as *methodological*. Like her I strive not for certainty, but aim to contribute to an understanding of how 'theoretical technologies' can be developed that may help in the study of 'materialities of learning'. Sørensen (p.13) writes that her work "is neither theoretical nor empirial, neither inductive nor deductive; instead it is *methodological*". With this Sørensen both means to describe her own analytical narrative (the structure of the text and the presentation/role of results) and how this fits into the 'pragmatic philosophy' that informs much work in STS, as well as her *socio-material* epistemology. The approach is centered on what I choose to refer to as 'the feminist challenge' in STS and social theory (the historic critique of science-as-usual and concepts of "strong objectivity" and "stong reflexivity" (Asdal, Brenna and Moser 2007, p.17-19)); the wish to 'imagine how practices could be different and how to reconfigure (Haraway 1997, cited in Sørensen 2009, p.13) or rearrange humans and things to allow new forms of technology, knowledge, presence and learning to emerge (Sørensen 2009, p.13). The study of the materialities is important because it has been neglected as part of what constitutes knowledge, and of social processes in general. As Sørensen (p.8-9) writes, this was the reason why it came to be a central theme of one of the most theoretically sophisticated approaches to STS, namely actor-network theory (ANT): 'It is not not given who can be actors in technological development and which characteristics they posess, ANTers argued. People, technology and natural phenomena can all be components and take on the role as actors'(Asdal, Brenna and Moser 2007, p.23). 

After Sørensen there have been interest in education as a topic in the field of STS has grown. Beyond the theoretical technologies that Sørensen contend with and develop I want to discuss how new theoretical technologies develop from, and intervene into, the space created from the awareness of the under-appreciated role of technology in knowledge production, learning and the educational apparatus - both from within STS and other fields. Such an awareness rises along with efforts to digitalize many of the tasks done at schools. Sørensen's work was itself posited on an experimental research position she had with a team developing educational technology in a research project that gathered schools in an experimental network. Her 'methodological' position was as such developed in response to the lack of theoretical technologies dealing with the materialities of learning - or more specifically socio-material work that theorized the differences between 'new' and 'traditional' forms of working and learning (educating) in the school system. Digitalization has become an important catapult for materially oriented perspectives on education. I had aquired an interest in this development when working as a secondary school teacher myself. I witnessed the friction that was associeted with the issues of implementing technologies and routines for the storing, sharing and production of digital knowledge and information firsthand. I have whished to keep the role of the teacher in the changing constalations of circulating technologies, knowledge production and learning in focus.

My theoretical aim has therefore been to assess the experimental system teachers partake in the construction of. Sørensen's analysis makes a case for different 'forms of presence' that play out in relation to different 'forms of knowledge' and different 'forms of technology'. She writes that we can think about learning through spaces of knowledge (p.130), and in her analysis 'new' (digital) learning technologies have an impacts on the (dis)continuity of relations in the classroom. For Sørensen such 'fluid patterns of relations' opens up posibilities to begin to understand the separations performed with the virtual environment in contrast to the boundaries performed in the classroom, in which the teacher is (to a further extent) positioned at the center. Fluid space has no center. Rather power and authority has to be imagined as enacted through such spaces, and she therefore challenge those (like Laet and Mol 2000's account of the Zimbabwe Bush Pump) who celebrate fluid patterns of relatons for being flexible, continuous and inclusive - supposedly 'dishonoring the regional pattern of relations due to its boundaries, explusion, and suppression of differences' (p.164-170). This 'performance of separation' that Sørensen describes has in my analysis played into imaginaries of 'the life-long learner' that is co-produced legal bodies, expert groups and accounting practices concerned with refroming the education system - such as in the 'evaluation *for* learning' paradigm - as well as in the education technology (EdTech) sector and the extensive literature concerned with defining the use and meaning of technical terms such as 'Open Education, the Long Tail, and Learning 2.0'(Seely Brown and Adler, 2008). What becomes an important point of departure from Sørensen's work is therefore the fact that the digitalization of the school system has already been underway for two or three decades. Therefore I want to more consciously (and/or critically) add the analytical dimension of studying the socio-ontology of digitalization in education. Socio-ontological analytical work has a central place in the history of STS. The 'ontological-turn' was arguably what made it possible to adopt the feminist challenge into the work of the wider field of sociology of science and technology; integrating the idea of 'strong ontology' and 'strong reflexivity' into the 'Strong Program' and as such laying out the premisses for the study (and broader idea) of science and technology in society (STS). I therefore have also let myself inspire by STS scholars that have written about the studies of technologies-in-use more generally. This could be described as an interest in the politics of 'embedded knowledge' and the ecology of design, information resources, tinkering etc. (forms of care and ordering) that participate in the co-construction of infrastructures and technology-intensive, multiactivity work and social organization. 

Two scholars have been particular important to the development of this account. Firstly, Lucy Suchmann and her work on 'the reconstruction of technologies as social practices'(Suchman et al. 1999) and the theorization of 'the politics of work and user oriented design' is central. Her work has been influential as it outlines an ethnomethodology describing the situated nature of 'high-tech' objects (ibid) and 'informed bodies'(Viseu and Suchmann 2010). Like Suchmann et al. my investigation critically analyze the professional practices and institutional arrangements of contemporary technology production by studying the artifacts-in-use. Secondly, I am also inspired by Susan Leigh Star (1989; 1999), her work together with Geoffrey C. Bowker (1999), and Rheinberger's adaption of some of her ideas. Star's idea of 'boundary objects', Star and Bowker's investigation into the conditions for 'the construction of large information infrastructures' and the Rheinberger's idea of 'cultures of experimentation, work together to allow me to assess how knowledge boundaries are in-scribed and re-scribed at the location. Knowledge boundaries are of course inherent in the education system and if we are to ascribe any value to these boundaries and our continuous efforts to uphold them we have to work to understand how they allow us to do things. For these 'doings' to be considered conscious acts we must ascribe them a context, but at once the context is set the personal disappears and how we value the possession of knowledge in our private lives become dependent upon the trajectories through (contexts) which we as individuals are thought to be set on. My question is therefore especially critical towards the effects that such boundary work has upon the evaluation of individuals and how this 'analytical dualism' (between knowledge and learning) translate into the valuation practices that organize human and non-human classification systems.

Lastly, opening up the questions boundaries and boundary work to an socio-ontological analysis also puts strain on the ability I have to leave prescriptive interpretations of the situation to a minimum. Star (1999, p.1) has described this methodological challenge of managing the change of scale from one ethnographical site to the study of infrastructures and their multicited temporality. While the socio-material analysis of the organization of learning is therefore extended through these ethnomethodological accounts of technology and the digital I try to tie it back together by drawing upon Noortje Marres' (2007) more recent work. Rather than simply trying to analyse the shifting networks that are represented and interested in the negotiating the meaning and practice attached to different materialities in the classroom I approach these processes of knowledge formation and interestment as forms of measurement and representation that draw in wider publics inside and outside of the organization - as inherently democratic processes. My reason for doing so is partly the above mentioned difficulty of gathering the resources to follow any one actor (human or non-human) to the extent that interests on the location will adeqatly be able to describe the politics or technoscientific apparatus involved in shaping the role of the teacher. Yet, the theoretical aim of this investigation is also to show that although fluent boundaries exagerate the impression of the 'partiality of knowledge' - by virtue of the gradual mutation of (what I call) objects of learning and the associated difficulty their measurement (Sørensen 2009, p.133) - the STS informed analysis knows this as an inherent property of the politics of knowledge. Troubling, partially unknown entanglements of humans and non-humans that are introduced to the world by science and technology, and in which society (attachments) becomes endangered can be understood as 'matter of concern' (matter as in material)(Latour 2004 [1999], cited in Marres 2007, p.4). I follow Suchmann et al.(1999) in including in these issues the practicalities and politics involved in attempts to reconceptualize and restructure the ways in which work and technology design are done. And as such, the projects, identities and interests that inform the social organization of practice and cultural constitution of meaning is brought into my analysis as part of a democratic politics that integrates such 'risky objects' into society; through valuation practices that are co-produced and enacted at the level of the 'autonomous learner', the professional teacher, the municipality, and a national, international and transnational measuring system. 



###Inspiration and research question

Efforts to digitalize have worked to replace and/or embedd traditional technologies in infrastructures of what can be understood as the 'high-tech'. As Suchman et al. (1999, p.399) point out, the high-tech often allow for further specialization through complex alliances between machines - 'arrays of partial, heterogeneous devices brought together into coherent assemblages on particular occations of work'. The idea of the flexibility that 'the digital' affords the learner and the epistemic challenge related to producing 'good' education technologies (in a growing industry) therefore play into the ordering of the materialities of learning, associated care practices and ideas of 'competence' and profesional autonomy. These analytical dimentions therefore have to be added to the work of the new ecology of the materiality of learning; seeing that "rather than discrete moments of production and consumption, technology-intensive work practices involve complex relations of appropriation and reworking across sites of professional design and design-in-use"(ibid). My theoretical aim has from the beginning as such been shaped by my own experience of having taken on the role as a 'professional' teacher. I entered into this role without the competences afforded by a 'practical pedagogic education' and the professional training that is associated with the teacher student education. This outsider/insider relationship has continued to shape my interest in the field and features prominently into my analysis. My interest in how to investigate the digital and the politics of digitalization has been given new meaning by the complex relations ('of appropriation and reworking across sites of professional design and design-in-use') that continued to shape my outsider/insider experience across the two years that worked in the secondary school that I visit in this study - in which I cared for the organizing of 'classes', evalutaion of (and/or *for*) learning, the administration of organizational activities, and relations between persons and groups (between students, groups of students, students and teachers, groups of students and groups of teachers, and groups of students and teachers and parrents or other associated parties). These relations were of course heavily mediated by digital resources, as well as efforts to integrate such technologies further into educational practices. 

The politics of these technologies was very much part of life. It played a major role in the controvercies that fueled the 'historic strikes' that hit educational institutions accross the whole of Norway back in 2014 - a strike in which two out of three teachers in the major teacher unions voted on the outcome of the negotiations between the unions representatives and the employer's organisation 'the Norwegian Association of Local and Regional Authorities' (known as KS). The controversy formed the central issue of the teacher's autonomy in questions of mobility and working hours. As Martine Aurdal (2014) wrote in her analysis of 'why the teachers really are saying no' 'the oportunity to be able to a large degree decide oneself upon when and where to do the extensive preperatory and follow-up work is exactly what has attrackted many to the job. To many teachers flexibility is part of the teacher soul'(translated from Norwegian). Furthermore, the politics of digital technologies was also central to these negotiations as they played out outside of formal political processes (or politics with a capital 'P'); it was an implicit and explicit part of the educational reforms that had continuously were being implemented at a local, regional, national and international level. Last, but not least digital technology was opening up new markets in EdTech technologies which is facing prospects of enormous growth based on government interest alone. Like Sir Ken Robinson opens his talk  - that feature into the (now) 'viral' video on education paradigms from 2010 (14,679,070 views by May 2017) - by saying "every country on earth, at the moment, is reforming public education". And, as Hege Tollerud, CEO in Oslo Edtech Cluster, told teacher students at Oslo University College in November 2016, 'of the $5 trillion global educational market only 2% are currently being spent on digital resources'. Together these different experiences (the political process, the education reform and the emerging position of the market for educational technologies) resulted in a major interest in how the geography of these political economic processes are shaping the materiality of learning. The theoretical aim of the study has therefore developed into a question of the relationship between the performance of mobility in the emerging ecology of science and technology and the 'autonomy' of teachers/learners. By autonomy I mean the legal, technical and cultural factors that shape persons ability to make decisions. In my analysis autonomy is enacted in the relationship between the practices that shape teachers' 'professional autonomy' as pedagogic-designers and infrastructural (legal, technical, etc.) user-oriented design. However, the idea of autonomy is also part of the wider Foucauldian analytical approach to governance and agencies of 'economizatoin' (sources lacking).

In the fall of 2015 I wrote an essay within Innovation Studies called the 'The impact of the emerging Learning Service Provider sector from a Norwegian perspective'. I put a lot of effort into finding the perspective that most readily allowed me to study these relationships from the point of view of a 'Technological Innovation System'...

Controversies that had long been open around the use of Learning Management Systems (LMSs), such as itslearning and/or Fronter, was evidence of a persistent problem, and it showed that my concerns about the lack of leadership(design) was a wider problem than was recognized. It was of course a question about what kind of leadership, or - in a post-human perspective - in an alliance with what?

The essay concluded that:

"Knowledge in the education system is highly specialised, and almost firm specific, although pedagogy as an academic subject branches over into other sectors. Typical for service sectors is that knowledge that spur innovation derives in the form of tacit knowledge in form of objects (Malerba, 2005). International studies show that Norway have a relatively very high access to basic facilities such as PCs, internet connection and projectors (Second Information technology in Education Studies, 2006, as cited UDIR 2011). Nevertheless, knowledge in the LSP sektor is to a larger extent internal to schools. There are of course the experts, and the networks of developers, that have connections into the world of IT and informatics and is as such staying closely connected with global knowledge, however, the teachers themselves have as we have seen gained a demanding role in a development that some say will undermine their profession. In recent years there have been strikes of historic proportions within the education sector (Aurdal, 2014). Studies in innovation studies do show that developing mechanisms that picks upon knowledge learned by doing is essential to any innovating business, and in the public sector where there is no inherent concept of a customer espcially (Bloch & Bugge, 2013). However the dynamics of demand at the level of the buyer of LSP licences has brought prices down, picking winners."


I look at how the digital has become included in definitions of competence in the evaluation criteria and I ask how these matter. How they travel through the organization.
I ask how the materiality of learning is changed by the Learning Management Systems (LMS) that rapidly have spread throughout the Norwegian education system, and the education systems of the world.
This is an *ANT* approach to an LMS, that places these technologies and their so called Learning Service Providors (LPS) in a network of itself.

I study the internal structuring of these network practices at the school that I am at through my analysis of the spaces of the school and the practices that organizes these spaces.
My point of departure in my study of teachers was therefore the material practices that positions teachers at the crux of circulating learning resources, giving them the status of objective observer.
I nevertheless depart with many essentialist ideas of technology, seeing the teacher as multiple. And I develop an analytical frame of a cultural market, in which I theorize how externalities co-emerges within the education system and in the proprietary markets of the school and their geographies.  
These externalities should be understood as genres in the bourdieun sense, and could be seen as much as part of the 'The broken system' narrative or the technical literature as My context:
-How does boundary infrastructures mediate the implementation of 'goals for learning' as a metrological practice in the Norwegian school reform "kunnskapsløftet"?*the equality idea*
I follow these externalities from practices of evaluation to practices in which sharing is produced as an ideal. I look at these ideals in a few documents and programs in the new LMS, office 365. From there I try to track the relationship between these documents/programs and processes elsewhere that define geopolitics of these technologies of calculability.

###Research question
How is learning done as an open epistemic object in networked education technologies? 





##Working hypothesis
In this chapter I present the 'methodological', or working, hypothesis as I conceived of it when I was met, understood, negotiated with and disputed, on my way through the rooms and spaces in which the organizement of operations throughout the school was conducted. The hypothesis was that one could study computers as 'imaginaries of informed bodies', and I try to test the assumptions in the situations I study. 

Discuss the extent to which the empirical and theoretical work of adopting an analysis of 'imaginaries of informed bodies' to the situations that I particpated as an observer could inform and contribute to the theoretical body that I was inspired by. 

I used to try to study the 'imaginaries of informed bodies' to be able to make out a comparative difference between the platforms that supported ipads and those on PCs, and at the time that I negotiated my enterence at Bergnes I had also gained permission to conduct a study at another location in which a different computer infrastructure was in place. The comparative method had to be put aside because of practical considerations (especially regardling the limitations of time), but the hypothesis to some extent persisted as it was developed as a strategy in response to a broader ethnometodological challenge.   The idea of studying the 'informed body' in the classroom was posited on the hope to observe 'tinkering' on the devices in networks that connected the different spaces together. I however thought that much of that activity happened outside of the classroom, both in the wider organization and outside. A comparative study would presumably allow me to form a clearer picture of the entities that bound various spaces together at the location, but furthermore also between these locations and to networks of various kinds. 

The hope at the time was that I could make out a form of 'boundary work' going on, since I had read quite extensively on the formation and development of school (computer) networks and the fluidity of strategies and terminology. I was particularly interested in the enactment of boundareis between what was called 'grids' (local networks) and 'clouds' (dynamic access to external computer resources provided by third parties), and imagined these forms of computing through metaphors of centralized-decentralized code - or what I will expalin in terms of the spatial imaginary of 'resonance'. 

The problem with this analytical strategy was that I did not have any particular way in which I hoped to identify these boundary objects, except for a hope of being able to access meetings; both of the routine kind, in which planning and communication activities were performed, and the reform-oriented kind, in which these routines negotiated at a higher level of representation. While I succeeded at gaining entrence to several of such meetings there were also several more going on at the same time. The strategy that had become (and as we will see, continued to be) negotiated had been that I would follow a 'team'. A team was a group of teachers and assitants that were assigned to two groups each. The groups were usually refered to in terms of 'classes' - which is a traditionally bound term. The stragey worked very well in terms of negotiating my status as an observer in almost all of the routine meetings and interactions. Yet, I had more difficulties being able to find good reasons for my observatory status to be extended beyond such contexts as it as what I hoped to achieve at these routine events was already in question (mostly in terms of curious questions of an unofficial kind). In the end I managed to participate in a few events, like ones gathering the entire staff in the canteen and the lunsh room on more and less official 'business', as well as a training event at another location involving special representatives from the staff concerned with the implementation of a set of reforms. These were productive events that the staff generally seemed quite pleased with, covering topics that were related to the topic of computer-networks to different extents. I nevertheless also missed one such topical lecture that was more directly concerned with one of the concentual debates that I thought to be related to practices of networked learning. The event happened at the beginning of my stay and I had not found ways of asking the staff-collegues for help or to suggest topics of conversation that was oriented towards my interests as a researcher. These interests/conversations rather developed slowly in relation to one-to-one conversations that sometimes were conducted along the lines of informal interviews, and in which I was able to use my notebook extensively to record the conversations, at least topically. 

The methodological hypthesis that the computers could be studied in relation to the imagined body of the pupil-student was hinged on an idea of the role of the computer in networks - that play into the relationship between learners and the larger organization - could quite readily be observed. As it was the first time that I conducted an ethnographic study and did not have much experience with either antopological literature or grounded theory the hypothesis was in a very real sense tested throughout the course of my experience. A gap emerged early on between the processes and theories that I hoped to relate to the technology in question (the debates I had researched) and the debate that had legal, pedagogic-scientific, organizational and societal relevance in the discourse that occupied the field. The gap was always a point of (more or less explicit) friction, but the outsider role also offered me greater flexibility in terms of the persons and context that I could enter into. My approach was from the beginning therefore more suited to the study of boundary objects internally in organization and the 'local' information infrastructure. 




##Transit
When not being able to observe the materialities of the school by walking in and out of rooms and seeing the materials of learning being transitioned between subjects I have to make sense of the material that I can observe and how it comes together in my journey back into the school. First I notice how anxious I am to know all the names of the students that I used to teach and how my identity as a 'good' teacher depends on it. I feel the same way about former colleagues, but in a different way in which I am entangled in a less formal and more dependent relationship.. It is of course these people that could let me into their classrooms.

At the school the relationships between the teachers and the materiality of learning representative of the individual identities of kids are now plastered across the wall. Pictures on the walls are either of teachers talking to kids, or some visiting speaker. Otherwise there are ready works of art, done by different individuals.

##Autonomy among administrative spaces
**I already wanted to study how accountancy practices changed**
The team-room is a room in which I had to find a spot to set up my space. It was me who suggested spending time with a team as I could perhaps repay them for what ever time I took off them through some work of my own, but by doing this the team had a hard time figuring out when, where and how to supervise my stay. Overcoming the hurdle of the outsider position which I had unwittingly taken on in negotiation with the administration meant showing up at the school and talking to the gate-keepers in the team directly.

The isles outside of these rooms are filled with bookshelves, clearly constructed with a sense of a repository of knowledge sharing in mind..
When I am there I am also sent up to manage classes on behalf of others. I now follow the materials that direct me towards the class. The team-room is cluttered. Some desks are so messy that the kids would probably have made fun of the teachers for not keeping their desks ordered like we make sure they do. I am not too bothered with the fact that I don't find the materials I will be using some time in advance, because I most of what will happen in the classroom is an ordering of space. Like I am reminded once I enter a class I can easily show that I know the rules and how to handle them. Enforcing a common understanding of the rules of the classroom as such was a major project a few years before I started working there.

Sam has this role. A new system is being put in place that intervenes in this process. I now get an SMS, but otherwise it works like before. Either a teacher tells me where to find books, otherwise it could be problematic. It takes him 5 minutes to find.


##The intervention of the science teacher
**Reminding myself that the computer was what I was trying to study**
*Science teachers are the subject of much of the politics of STS in education in it's current form.. observations from the education fair.. I also wondered where to study the interventions done to achieve a presence with this subject-form. Hearing about the projector resonated with the idea that some chosen subjects now plays with technologies to integrate IT competence among the teacher's/school.. Nevertheless, I would find out that this was part of a much wider development program in which the politics of digital-books were involved directly. There it was also not so shocking that the science teacher intervened in my study**
The relationship between their computers and the projector certainly become evident later on as Maddie turned on the projector and showed us what was done on her computer, attached through a cord. In the discussion how the infrastructure structured their work. How it was fair and unfair, and how they as a group were adapting or struggling to adapt (Star - being included in the understanding). One comment surprised me; that they could read what they had read. It was logical enough, but the purpose of writing was surely shaping their hand writing if they couldn't read their own texts. These were clearly practices and technologies of the self in almost a simplistic very functional (not necessary power - not yet), but it was also a topic concerning the ontology of the learner: data that generates itself.

Furthermore, even though the smartboard is positioned in front of the class the room as a whole is characterized by the variety of interesting items, all characterized as being on display within class cabinets and many of which are both virtual simulations of real objects, though in different sizes, and interactive along several dimensions - seeing one could take these models apart and study their modular forms from the inside and from the perspective of the components that made up the layers and established them as, for example, organs. What was more, the glass cabinet that displayed these objects at the side of the room were permanent fixtures. Elementary to the architecture of the room. The same kind of display design had fascinated and frustrated me from the time that I entered secondary school myself to the time that I left, more than ten years ago. In a similar vein to the new and perhaps even more fancy technology that hid inside the software of the new smartboard, its tentalising properties remained distant to us and was less a feature of our education per se as much as a feature of the room. It was as if there was a socio-cultural market for these kinds of objects within this categorical subject-space.


##Encountering unknown (being used to be a teacher) restrictions among the accountancy practices of the substitute teacher



##Daring to sit down and observe the other teachers



##Finding the essence within new evaluation practices in the materiality of self-management





That is, I want to intervene into the work of anthropological inquiry and the theoretical technologies that are drawn upon to conduct ethnographies of work and technology in education. To some this might seem like a rather narrow interest, but it informs some of the major research projects that are producing knowledge about the effects of digitalization on learning and educatoin....


Instead of describing technologies failing to deliver the expected educational outcome researchers should ask what was performed by and through the technologies in place of the expected outcome. The technologies are of relevance despite not proving to achieve what is desired simply because they could have unexpected effects apart from these goals. Beyond this obvious advantage (when first accepted) the position nevertheless also had the unexpected advantage of affording me insight into the way such an "emphasis on technology as a means to educational aims establishes an intellectual division of labor, which puts educational theory and conceptualizations of educational aims above the understanding of technology in educational practice. Researchers first consider how children learn and develop and what characterizes good interaction, and only after that they ask how technology can be applied to create these conditions. Researchers rarely consider that it may be the other way around: that we theorize about learning the way we do because we have certian learning materials in mind when we account for learning, or at least that the learning materials in use influence the formation of learning and affect our thinking and theorizing about education in general"(ibid, p.7). 

-I develop the theoretical proposition that interventions into these material constalations vary; not only in terms of epistemology, but in terms of the extent to which their experimental systems afford their epistemologies 'reach' and 'value'.
I therefore developed the idea of studying 'imaginaries of informed bodies'.

 

She for example explains that one needs to keep in mind the differences between the scientific knowledge that in STS most famously has been described by Latour - knowledge as 'truth' emerging out of circulting references such as samples, researchers, diagrams, maps, and reports. Representational knowledge of these kinds (representations of these forms of knowledge) are in schools appropriated by pupils who connect to references "in the world" - they are only 'new' to the pupils. Representational knowledge can therefore also be stagnant (as opposed to fluid). "It is not dependent on learning taking place, and it is indifferent to whether or not learning takes place... fluid learning (on the other hand) does not belong to the human individual; instead, each participant is affected by mutation of the space, not in terms of "more or less" but "qualitatively" in terms of differences"(p.130-131). 

