#The school

The school was in a period of transition. This was the transition from the school semester to school holiday. The holiday is more than a pause in activity. It takes up a significant proportion of time. It took me some time to convince the team that I was communicating with that it was a good time to be following them. In answer to my proposition I met concern with the lack of teaching activity that was going on at this period. After talking among themselves they proposed that I should rather come around when the spring semester started. Ordinary classes was being faced out, which meant that time was being spent among other things in preparation to the yearly Christmas party. These activities could hardly be understood as particularly relevant for a study about education and education technology they thought.

Although I had been designated a team, and even though they were all former colleagues of mine, at first it was a challenge to communicate and make plans for when I was to arrive. I told them that I was interested in the evaluation work that was going on at this time of year. It was not however before I got in touch with David, whom I knew well and communicated with in a personal tone via a personal communication channel, that it was confirmed to me that I could just show up when I wanted to. Nothing else was ever indicated to me but I had been trying to communicate with the group as a whole via email to gain common consent and found it hard to gain. David later told me in the private chat that each of them individually could feel hesitant to speak on behalf of the others. However, even though I had an official invitation from the administration I was beginning to notice that the question of whether I was an insider or an outsider now was unclear. Not only to me, but to all of us. At first they wanted to fit me into a schedule that took as its basis the teaching schedule, and the periodic changed that they shared at an organizational level, but as an (former) insider I knew that the period was a hectic one in the lives of individual teachers.

They all need to have their paper work in order, a process that I hoped would shed light on many of the organizational requirements that I was interested in. I was anxious whether I would be able to observe these discrete and quiet processes, at the time and place when the teachers experience is mixed with evaluation criteria and accounting systems and translated into a grading system. The ethical dimensions of these sensitive processes seemed many and I was not able to structure the observations in such a way that I could proceed without knowing in advance what I was looking for. I was afraid that the result would inadvertently communicate an essence of the group of people, or the student that I would be following through the system. Or, at least, I was afraid that the evidence I would gather would be of a sensitive enough nature for outsiders to be able to gain access to essential information about the abilities of students or the value at which they are assessed. This made it hard for me to describe the space in which I was observing, and for me to communicate how they could plan for and around my presence.

It had been tough enough for me to adjust to the experience of being a teacher, not knowing whether I could fulfill all the requirements. Now I felt like it even harder to fill the role that I represented responsibilly, actually delaying the entire process. The idea that I would stand looking above the shoulders of students and teachers and watch information circulate between them went from being a theoretical ideal to become an excuse for what was necessary to observe educational technology in action. For example, the nature of the participatory study made the question of who would want and need a letter of informed consent a difficult one. I had communicated my intentions via email to the school administration before I got the official clearance and continued to do so with the team that I was designated to. However, because of the fluid nature of the ethnographic method no one except for the parents of the children in the two eight grade classes that the team was responsible for got a formal letter of informed consent. Yet, that is not to say that the letter was not important. It became an important point of reference and in some ways a channel of communication between the team and I.

Because I was hoping to study their work and teaching in an organizational perspective I knew that designating a letter only to the parents of the children would portray a narrow idea of what I was doing and what I had written via email had a more theoretical and less practical overtone. One of the team-members, which I will call Lisa, tried to gain a better understanding of the how they could accommodate my research and I had had a hard time communicating that I wanted to observe them and was not hoping to be led around to any place in particular. Furthermore, it was challenging to express how I thought of myself as a participant observer. The idea had been something I used to negotiate my terms of entry with. I imagined myself doing small tasks on behalf of the staff or organizing a small project related to the topic of social science as science, to pay them back for the inconvenience of having to explain the purpose of every task so to say. Thinking back at how I remembered the job I couldn't point out any task in particular that I could imagine myself taking responsibility for whilst there so the suggestion became an issue that they perhaps would need to come up with a solution to, and the issue became a point of tension that was put aside as I decided to show up and simply begin my observations.

David, who was a young and sociable guy with a calmness about him, suggested we could send the letter of informed consent together when I got there, making it an opportunity to discuss the conditions for my participatory study. An email had already been forwarded to all the parents a few weeks earlier informing about my plans and outlining the purpose of the study. These simplified aims helped to make my intentions concrete and, getting no answer back from the administration of team-members seemed to warrant the clearance I required, even though I didn't know it at the time. What the letter of informed consent later saw too was the way my responsibilities as the observer in the study would be defined. By attending to the complex issue of consent among children and their respective parents I had designated these aims of mine to a time and a place - namely the classroom. My participatory role was framed as being an assistant to the teacher in the classroom while I would follow what I observed there in the routines of the teacher elsewhere. Furthermore, David helped me effectively communicate with the parents by pointing out in the email and letter that they would be able to contact me directly if they should have any questions or issues. I had originally wanted to give responsibility for answering questions to the team-members, the administration and my supervisor in that respective order, but David removed the team-members from their given position order and replaced it with my as the researcher. By positioning me in direct order under the school administration and university I became an independent participant in the classroom.

The issue of having to define the purpose of my presence was largely resolved in the conversation with David the first day, though the peculiarity of the experience in some ways persisted. The obstacle of securing all the parents' consent was resolved by asking parents to get in touch with me if they had any questions or took issue with any part of the study. By the next day I had my clearance from the Norwegian Center for Research-data (NSD) and had in many ways proved my own position within the educational establishment. This last point is a curious one because my position within the education establishment is in many ways a very different one than the teachers in the team participated in. For example, my letterhead, with the logo of the University of Oslo on it, was one of the things that seemed to have had the effect of portraying my research in an light of authority. David commented on the effect the letterhead had at displaying seriousness when we sat down to review the letter before sending it off. Yet, my role as an observer in the classroom is highly normal in teaching establishments since every teacher student is designated to observe classroom activities and participate in these teaching activities as part of their education. All throughout my stay at the secondary school I was asked whether I was there as part of my practice period. In addition to these practice periods many of the teachers was adding further credits to educational at institutions like the University of Oslo.

Together with my talk about data, the ethics of sensitive information and a reference to the NSD the logo nevnertheless contributed to set the parameters for a study of the school from the outside, and it was within these parameters that I tried to frame the role of the pupil in my observations, in the classroom and in the teachers evaluation work. Here I was bound to the careful guidance and judgement of the teachers that would have to let me look at their work as it was happening.

*This essense did not really exist.
