
I sit down with Maddie again and try to get back to the topic we discussed on the first day. I want to talk about their continuous transition to a cloudbased system. We start of talking about the transition from MLG to office 360 and what has happened to the systems that were set up and which we were trying to maintain whilst I was still around. All the folders from within the old system has been moved into a seperate folder in the new one. The subject relevant matterial that had been shared on MLG, and the organizing logic, should have been transfered but it hasn't Maddie says. 'It was the administration's wish that the old system was separated from the new one.'

Maddie continues. 'There has been no standard for how things are to be shared.' We discuss what's important for such sharing to take place. One of the problems Maddie explains is that the site just isn't visited often enough. Watching her try to navigate through the web pages I find myself confused, but I also observe her struggle with discussing the content of the system whilst navigating it. She can find most of whats there, but finding the right folder sometimes takes a few klicks and we both explore the contents of each folder together. She knows where to find most things, but we have to check to see what exists and what doesn't. And she knows little of what is to be found in the old system.

What is odd is that there are almost more clicks which are necessary to navigate through the new system than the old. One reason for this is that one needs to navigate back to the front-page ever so often, and the cloud based layer is very visible. It looks like a web page, which one navigates through as a citizen/client in normal 'screen-level bureaucracy'. Like on a 'home-page' it is at the front-page that messages are displayed on and staff are required to check in on its status ever so often, which according to Maddie is a difficult routine to implement in practice. She says that she the tries to log on in the mornings and sometimes throughout the day, but there simply aren't enough reasons to go there and often it slips her mind. Her impression is that it is the same way for everyone working there. In my experience many of the messages there used to be qualified, in the sense that it said something about the events coming up or people missing and which more often then not did not effect my day-to-day work.

We go back to the frontpage and have a look at the calendar.  We quickly agree that there isn't much information that one finds at the calendar. Simply there isn't much there. Most of what is planned in a teacher's work-year is written in the team's or personal calendar. We look at one event coming up posted by the music teacher informing others about groups of students practicing for the Christmas dance, but as Maddie tells me 'all the important details was included in an email to each separate team. Looking at the calendar wouldn't tell you what you needed to know. One would have to dig up the email to be reminded of for example, what group should be sent down when'. For others the information could be said to be trivial. We talk a little about how weird it is that most other organizations use outlook, in which the calendar function is so central.

When we discuss the potential of these technology for creating a platform for sharing or organizing - more specifically the former ambition of uploading useful teaching (and testing) materials and provisions (prearrangement/criteria) in MLG - Maddie says that 'Onenote is not the best place for such sharing'. 'If they could be notified every time someone added to or changed some of the materials that was there they would perhaps be used more.' She says that even when things are shared with the best of intentions it can very easily lie there unused. 'It is often irrelevant to what is planned between the different subject-teachers. The group would have to look at what is there when they plan ahead.' Maddie thinks that it would have been beneficial if each subject had their own communication channel and says that as an alternative to Onenote all the teachers could be part of virtual groups and we discuss the practices used in organizations using outlook. Maddie says that there are options among the functions already in use, such as the 'group function'. Then messages could be shared among all the members of these groups via the email function.
Groups form virtual spaces, or platforms for sharing and Maddie knows that these functions are being taken advantage and integrated in a better way into the working of the organization at other schools within the municipality. She says that although she doesn't know much about the way these things are done elsewhere at least she's heard from her friends working at another school further up in the valley that these groups help them quite a bit.

She expresses her wish that the office menu on the operating system had its own button (shortcuts/hyperlinks) displaying the most important (relevant) groups.
Indeed, at the so called 'Sharepoint' one can 'follow' individual (or single) folders, such as the 2003CD team's one. However, one has to go back to Sharepoint to be able to find other folder/groups. Moreover, there are no notifications attached to them.

We sit looking at the other buttons and discuss the different programs/functions that looks like they already have been installed in the informational infrastructure, without having been implemented in practice. I ask her about the progress they are having at Bergnes at adapting the range of functionalities that are available to their organizational needs. A range of options have been presented. What was happening then was that the 9AB team, consisting of Elisabeth and Max, were for example testing planning function with week-schedule(lesson-schedule) and the work-schedule.
