## The school-planner

The topic is becoming speculative and we turn our attention to the established practices at Bergnes. I ask her about what use she has of the 'school-planer'. I used to own one of these myself and knew that virtually all the teachers had one of these specialised planers, produced by a couple of different publishers, in three editions each; one for primary school, one for secondary school and one for high school. Maddie had the Gyldendal version. Large (A4 pages), bright orange cover and a simple design. Its main section was divided up into weeks, spread out onto two facing pages and a table displaying the hours of the workday + an additional couple of hours.

'It's just used to keep an overview of what happens when. It's used less and less.' Maddie says. She shows me a bunch of loose papers inside her planner and says that she has become more dependent on these loose papers to keep a record of results. She shows me all the extra features the in the planer. These are pages with tables where one can gather (list) all the results of the student's work in all of the teacher's taught subjects, in addition to notices for bad behavior and orderliness and more.

I stopped using these and for a while I tried to write the results directly into visma without using any summary sheets. However, it was impossible to adapt the practical use of the system with the kinds of conversations that one has with students. They sometimes want (demand/have the right to) to know the reasons for each of their grades (making up the total). The loose paper are simply registers that display the different grades therefore sum up all the scores from the different evaluation work (object) gathered on the each student in a subject. These evaluation-objects are not all tests. They are also reports from the 'lab', evaluations of their participation in lessons etc. The evaluation-objects therefore refer to different registers in a different red folder in one of the drawers at her desk specifying/summarizing the results of a score system or a record.

Maddie tells me that when she used to be a teacher in the USA the reality used to be different. The use of programs that logged the students' results was much more prevalent since the system facilitated their use. The curricula gave weight to 'factual knowledge' and scoring systems were based around the calculation of points and percentages. Multiple-choice was widely used and a machine calculate the grade. All of this makes it easier to attain better grades. However Maddie says she hasn't decided which of the two systems she likes the most, since she would very much have liked to be able to spend less time on evaluating students' work and more on preparing her teaching.

Maddie admits that other important reasons why she sticks to the school-planer is the way it features into her personal life. Although it's a professional tool, it also helps her plan (structure) other aspects of her life. She shows me how she's written down her plan for a family holiday over Christmas. It's not random that they've the publishers haven't left out these weeks she says. Not least, the planner allows Maddie to scribble in notes in the margins of each page reminding her about important events or what she's got to do.
My idea of the sensitive data to be found in the internal pages of the teacher's analytical systems had disappeared into an almost too familiar scoring system. One seemingly removed from the issues of centralization.

I make an attempt at following the grades on the loose sheets further. I ask her about what other documents and these papers (evaluation objects) interact with in the organization's information system and Maddie opens a year (level) plan that was made on the basis on a workshop together with the entire staff on a trip to Italy in 2010.  Despite not having found what I was looking for within the evaluatory systems of the teacher Maddie had lead me back to the organizational issues that got me interested in the topic of school reforms. I remember well being sent to Berlin on a trip myself and living at a hotel with a conference center that year on another such trip. When I came back two years later there was money left on the budget and yet another was suggested, but this time the initiative was canceled after a vote was organized in response to complaints about irresponsible use of resources and time.

The year/level-plan Maddie said was still in use (I don't know whether they revision it ever so often). Nevertheless, it year/level-plan resulted in a skeleton-plan that divided up the competence-goals among the levels which again was used to create learning-goals. These are the learning-goals that was going to be taught (tested and written on the week-plan). Creating a system (infrastructure) that allow the tracing of week-to-week (week nr.) progress towards these goals is a relatively large information infrastructure building. Maddie says that if I would like to find out about the decisions of how to locally adapt the learning-goals I would have to read up on UDIR's homepages, or/and I would have to talk to the administration. She just knew that a lot of work had gone into developing and arranging before new ways of organizing came along.
