

**Notater 30.10.17**

I now begin to gain some insight into the importance and relevance of the idea of the 'end of history', as it was advocated by Francis Fucujama at the end of the Cold War. This confusing terminology speaks to the trends of academia and acamedic culture. It talks to the fact that very little of the hype around globalization trickled down into the realms of basic education. 

I gain this insight as I contiplate the notion of the 'end of theory' and the 'death of the theorist' in relation to the increasing mediation, augmentation and even automation of acadmic practive and knowledge production (in the concluding remarks of Ben Williamson article with the same name). 

The end of history encrouch upon the notion of the role of the historian. It is said to be a result of liberal theory in IR, and written in reaction to the lacking ability of 'theoritists' and scholars of the field to predict the historical events at the beginning of the 1990s. Yet, in true liberal fashion it is not only a theoretical critique but a bold historical statement based on the 'newness' of the (roughly) present situation. It was the same period in which the internet was being released onto the stage of civil society, and speaks to the fact that the ins and outs of different societies are looking increasingly similar from the standpoint of the individual spectator. 

The irony then is that such a statement is based not on the end of the Cold War, but the onset of an system in which the ideaological contentions of history was increasingly being replaced by the symetrical standards of internationalism. This was an era in wich the international agenda would actually become more problamaticly controlled (as many good analysis of the war on terror shows), and the analysis of globalization was again 'trending' (to use a more current term) among researchers. A topic that I have encountered is the way teachers 'recist', or act, within a 'global classroom'. 

This very much speaks to the idea of the influence of the transnational framework of measurement within the education system - itself a highly controversial topic within the educational research community because it is hard to grasp without properly theorizing the field of educational research (or research upon educational research). Moreover, the statement also speaks to me as I contemplate the influence of 'subjectificaiton' on the experties of teachers. 



I have seen in my studies that the idea of harmonization has continued as a trend of 'smoothening out' conceptual interpretations. Data and different forms of data-visualization is used to strengthen the weakness of facts through the illusion of certitude. 

The teacher no longer has the role of bringing these histories alive, but rather that of mediating their aliveness. The harmonious events of the past used to be filled with the contradictions of the teachers own views which shaped the way he re-told these stories and others. As a story-teller his role in the histories of the classroom-imaginary is to 'lead' the class, and to set up the conditions for the class to tell the story themselves. To mediate the conditions for 'sharing', as a social act.

History could be linked, and mapped onto an ontology of activities.


The idea of generalization as I conceive of it is then attaches itself not only to the computer, but to the practice of the story-teller. 

This difficulty of showing how this works in practice is well described by ... who points out the danger of the 'solutionist' agenda being impossible to attack, and even unimaginable (it leads to perfect diffusion and lack of contrast within distributed networks*). 




