
**Research Design**

My research question is: 

*How is 'good survaillence' performed in the standardization of progress within 'life-long learning' accounting practices online?*


Alternative questions:
*How is mobile-computing and the one-to-one policy in ICT pedagogy translated into 'life-long learning' data?*
*How is a standard for life-long learning constructed within a Norwegian secondary school?*



Druglitrø's outline:
Much has changed in the last three decades of educational standardization work. Not much was known about the 'progress', or measures, of individual schools up until the beginning of this millenia. First, in the reforms of 94' and 97' minimum requirements for the books that should be thaught was introduced at the same time as the teachers' accounting practices and evaluation policy came to disregard non-behavioral action. The progression of classes through the subjects were no longer to be shaped by the opinions or life experience of teachers. 

Then, a decade later, another flip happened. Each student were given rights to digital competence. Slowly this has been translated into the right to a personal computer, or one-to-one policy. Openness in education was shaped around the PC parradigme. Now each student should have the ability to access all the information online, but s/he should also have a new form of autonomy.


*The crisis*
PISA and standardized tests only regulates some forms of knowledge, but the ability to survaile more forms of work on the other hand is also controvercial. UDIR wants to do so and wash away hierarchical lines between the subjects, but legal scholars are reacting adversly against the extraordinary lengths to which educators go to exempt themselves from privacy issues.

Writers studying the use of social media among youth have been asking questions about their political engagment, finding however that the frontstage/backstage division within these interactions become non-political. One has to understand the contexts of speaking and of text, and it is problematized within the social sciences as a context-collapse. That which is now known about the preferences of the consumers (the basis of the business model) of social media is now becoming politicized. Students share a whole lot online that is not known to the public, but to the private. 
I study the effort to controll this backstage within the context of schooling. 

In the education system there have been a related problem. The LMS and other education technology does not seem to have the same effects that are 'afforded' to them in the education (technology) literature. 

How is the government intervening into this space? **The massive reform going on today accross institutional line is historic.**
I am looking at the division between the political and pedagogic (or just the politization). In an ANT approach I try to link the micro and the macro. This is an issue that could be said to associate with the issue of how to study Foucauldian discipline and agecement. My earlier adoption of the psychological perspective on computers help understand how one could be fooled by thinking that computers have changed 'society' (or history) and overlook the ways in which the psychology of kids are co-modified. Governmentality is a concern of educators that are now intervening with means drawn from new alliances, which are standardizing in new ways the local/mediated spaces of the political economies of the classroom. 

 
Textbooks used to be trusted like the bible. This could be explained by the effort at showing how the nation state was centre for legitimacy, which is now being replaced by networks. What are the consequences of information being produced and consumed outside the 'public' spaces. 
*How is the debate dominated by ideas about a new 'public' discourse formed in Social Media, and how the privacy of the internet cared for?*
How are the publics of education cared for?

I heard rummers that they were introducing a social credit system in China. Yet, to appreciate what is happening the process of valuation of education has to be understood..



*Valuation studies and the politics of life-long learning data*
-standards for pedagogic care: the meaning of pedagogy and its relationship (or non-relationship) with technology.
Data is sometimes being stored. Yet, not all systems store data, and the systems that does are quite different than the ones that don't. 

In my study I look at how the Microsoft miliue is translated: From having kids write/record in word and upload into 'the cloud' the Windows 365 system is slowly orienting 'itself' towards the cloud.  The school is working on a system in which the cloud is integrated more readily into the computer through an LMS - in the fashion of the internet of things. So Windows is starting to let others offer other programs within their system. 

Earlier municipalities like Oslo could only prioritize investing in infrastructure that assured the right to correct records. Typically this was whether someone were present during one part of the educational course. Visma was its own accounting system, built with strong authentification measures. It was therefore also closed off to the public, and/or administrators rights carefully. Increasingly plugins are being develope, increasing interoperability with more fluid systems. 

A system in which there were no identity management system could not be used with memory. Administrating their own database meant an enormous responsibility. Schools and universities had developed a great deal of experties to tackle the tasks of administrating who attended what courses etc. Yet, the administrative role had remained limited in some sense. It had indeed been a space in which many interests, aliances, and experties had been developed, but it had been closely associated with the IT-community. 

The IT-community is off course itself a highly heterogenous group, which could only be defined through an intericate mesh of histories. IT grew out of state building projects, military intelligence and logistics, business intelligence and strategy, but not least also in connection to the educational institutions. 


The connections made between the teachers, administrator and students in new ways through **the ordering of content**. This way of observing connections is now becoming a way of defining progression within communities (or Networks). 





*The politics of life-long learning design:* 

I had to cope with the challenge of doing an ethnographic study of ubiquitous media and the high-tech infrastructure that makes up the cloud. I therefore 'followed' the concept of 'affordance' to try to understand how the contexts that construct ideas of accountability come about within the chategory systems of education. 

In the last RQ I ask how the classroom is translated, or cared for, in the construction of cloud technology. With this idea I mean that the teacher cares for the class as they i.e. take students out of the room to allow independent work to continue. This is changing the way they are performing the legitimacy of the codes/norms of the classroom, the virtual, and the autonomy of the student as a user. 


*The education cloud*

I assume the 'education cloud' to be the classroom and its protected spaces. The classroom is already virtual, as I hope to show in chapter one. I show that the teacher has to take the student out of the classroom, and the survailed spaces of. The classroom is described by its physical form, but not so often its virtual form. The teacher is a key element in the space as her or his subjective position could be said to 'have' the class. I ask what this means by studying the way teachers account for groups and individuals. With such a view I follow Francis Lee in his critical position towards the idea of 'mass-individualization'.


*The teachers' as actors*

I am interested in the writings of Marres on the socio-ontological study of politics and the digital. I ask how teachers are assosiating with issues and their role in the controvercies of the cloud. The way they value the attachments between the computers and the students is key in the associations that are created with behaviours in the group that is the class. 






.....................

This question has a few confusing elements within it. 

First, Microsoft's latest software-technology, Windows 365, is already thought of as a cloud-centered system - oriented towards its own cloud; onedrive - and it is not clear how a strategy could be translated into an external cloud, or anywhere for that matter. 

This elemement consists mainly of an emirical and ethnomethodological challenge. This challenge is related to the historiological challenge of mapping out a history of the computer. The Windows system grew out off, and was co-constructed with, a technology that is parramount within so much of contemporary history, the 'Personal computer' or 'PC'. 
In this thesis I am however observing Microsoft and the Windows operating system undergoing a radical transformation. In the course of my research I have experience a sense that Microsoft is exerting renewed influence and power. This, as it was pronounced by one programer presenting at the UNINETT (ICT) conference, is on account of its new strategy. A strategy known as 'mobile first'. Microsoft is intervening into the very infrastructure of the virtual sphere of the cloud and what I descibe as the post-web.2.0. economy. 


Second, is the politics of life-long learning..

Third, it is not clear what the 'education cloud' is, and its existence is indeed in question. 
This is a question of boundaries; a confusing and controvercial topic in current debates about cloudification, openness and privacy. The question is intimately realteded with interdisciplinary challenges of digital- or algorithmic-studies and the political economy of GDPR and the Web.2.0 landscape (the landscape of ie. social media). Leading up to my work on the thesis I wrote an essay on the role of so-called 'Learning Management Systems'(LMS) in innovation in the education-system. The research put into action (and words) my own experience from working in education and questions I had about the reform- and innovation-work we had spent so much energy labouring on. Learning to employ a 'Technological Innovation System' framework (a framework within Innovation studies oriented towards the study alliances among the actors in the network that make up the technology) to my study of the work processes shaped how I came to question the exictance of the cloud that the LMS was supposed to represent, and the political economic position (or foundation) of the sector that the Windows 365 system intervenes into. 





If I could be said to have theoretical aim it would be to understand *how the heterogenity of ecosystem-ontology in ICT is being cared for and institutionalized in the accounting-practices education and education-technologies.*

