
**Uninett**

"*Vi knytter forsknings- og utdannings-Norge sammen*"
"UNINETT utvikler og driver det norske forskningsnettet, som forbinder mer enn 200 norske utdannings- og forskningsinstitusjoner og over 300 000 brukere, og knytter dem opp mot internasjonale forskningsnett." (Uninett forside)

"*Norway's NREN*"
"Uninett runs and develops Norway's research and education network (NREN), connecting more than 300 000 users cross-country. Uninett is owned by the Norwegian Ministry of Education and Research. We are a neutral party, and the business is run non-profit." (Uninetts engelske forside)

"UNINETT is a state owned company responsible for Norway's National Research and Education Network. The organization develops and operates the national research network in Norway. The center of operations in located at Teknobyen Innovation Centre in Trondheim. UNINETT has approximately 100 employees. All Norwegian universities and most of the public colleges are connected to UNINETT. Any non-commercial research or educational institution such as libraries, archives and schools may be connected for a yearly fee. Chief Executive Officer at UNINETT is Mr. Roar Olsen." (Wikipedia)

"Kunnskapsdepartementets tjenesteorgan (nytt navn kommer) ble etablert 1. januar 2018, med hovedkontor i Trondheim. UNINETT overførte mange tjenester og 31 ansatte til tjenesteorganet. Endringene skal ikke medføre negative konsekvenser for tjenesteleveranser og kundeoppfølging. Fakturering av tjenester fra Uninett og tjenesteorganet blir koordinert nå i etableringsfasen." (Uninetts tjenestekatalog)



When I first came in contact with Uninett I had never heard about the company and did not have much of an understanding about what they were doing. I came in touch with Uninett through a process in which they were trying to establish an sector/industry standard among the higher education institutions for the procurement of Learning Managemnet Systems (LMS). I had been recomended to apply for a position as student-representative for the National Union of Students in Norway, or Norsk Studentorganisasjon (the Norwegian Student Organization - NSO). The purpose of the meeting was to bring together representatives from within the sector to discuss use-cases. 

Heidi Bergh-Hoff was the mediator and only Uninett representative.  

Before the meeting I had a conversation with Heidi. We were video-conferencing on Uninett's own technological platform, and she explained to me that it was possible because of Uninett's long history.. 



