
Intro:

*In anticipation of Norwegian EdTech and networks within the boarders*


*A case study? Multicited ethnography and my interest with size in educational instituions*
-Does the education system have power? Studying education-technology through its economization (beyond local adoption). 
-The challenge of the time/context-collapse: life-long learning.
-A study of boundaries and the critical/reflexive standpoint towards assumptions


*What is cloud-computing*
-The STS researchers naive approach and the necessity of a definition.
-Software as a Serivice (SaaS), Platform as a Service (PaaS) & Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS).
-Is the cloud different from the LMS that preceded it? Teaching crowds and forms of accountability.


*The methodological approach and the 'grounding' (infrastructural inversion) of the technopedagogic 'ecosystem'*
-Studying educational research: very few applied approaches to digital educational governance.


*Two cases of politics and expertiese within the education system*
-The Learning Comitee
-The UNINETT-conference



Kap.1

Life-long learning in view of the temporality of the secondary school.
-an intro from 'valuing life itself'?

Seeing unregular use as becoming an issue within the memory practice infrastructure

*The onenote exmaple in Hannahs Science class:*
-The strength of the network as problem and metaphore: The weakness of the infrastructure made the connection unstable it seemed, but it turned out to be just as much a problem of authentification.
-The ethics of labouring with that which is handed in, instead of that which is to be thaught; time-allocation and agency within pedagogic work.
>Was the book together with access to the internet deemed adequate?


*The onedrive example in the indepenent work-hour:*
There were two or three issues with authorification and alignment as the students worked with their homework. 
-The technical issue
-The group collaboration/cooperation issue(was it one or the other?). 
-The issue with lack of adequate tasks and my suggestion to look at the pedagogic plan for individual progression. 

In the science class the special room along with the specially allocated schedule regulated the group and its relationship with the materiality of learning. Being a substitute teacher I encountered problems with regulating the boarders of the room. The posibility of sharing work-tasks had some dominance


*The non-relationship with technology(?) the maths and language classes:*
Unregular use of notebooks and the weakness of memory practices - exams as a moral technology; equality in relation to the progress of the curriculum. 
-In the maths class they translated knowledge accross the practices of drawing charts etc.
-In the langauge classes another legitimacy-code pervaded: the subjectivivty of local knowledge and social-constructivism as basis for progress.






