
This thesis is about the meaning of pedagogy and its relationship (or non-relationship) with technology in an age of 'machine learning' and the 'Internet of Things' (IoT). Or in other words, the way the meaning of pedagogy is redefined in the age of 'Artificial Intelligence' (AI).

In the IoT more things are not just conected to 'the Internet'. The internet itself is becoming a series (if not inumerable) 'things'. In an STS language we could say that the internet itself is being 'infrastructured', but to qoute Latour (more directly) the internet is also causing 'things' to be produced. Pedagogic activity becomes things online. 

Moreover though, the activity data itself changes in nature as the devices that the activity was recorded on change. The computer itself changes continuously within adaptive systems. 

This is part of the problem of scholarly 'fixture'. The legitimacy of the author is dependent upon the life of the material itself. 




**Personal progresion in a lifetime online**

If I accept that progression is associated with the ability to save information, then the infrastructure of 'saving' could be said to work as pragmatic indicators of memory (learning) and memory practice. Taking the materiality of learning into account, how do I study the imaginations of informed bodies?

Can I use the theory of ordering (positive power) to look at how the classroom is a space in which bodies are augmented? 

Personal progression is defined through the relationship which is established in the ordering of content within 'learning management systems'(LMS). The LMS is a term (and acronyme) that emerged within the era of internet commercialization in the 1990s. However, we have to think that systems for managing learning activities also existed before this period. 


