
23.1. Introduction

**The materiality of teaching; good survaillence in the age of artificial intelligence**


RQ: How is 'good survaillance' performed within the development of an equity standard in Norwegian education? 


*I talk about the information infrastructure by refering to the ontology document 'Grep ontology', and my concern is observing its spatio-temporal associations in the school organization; the use of the boundary objects*


**Introduction**

*Quote from Niels Christie 'hvis skolen ikke fantes': the school thaught you to take part in affairs external to the community, but really it was a place to store kids and establish norms of imagined futures*

-Partaking in Christie's tradition and study the school system as whole, our relations with these spaces, their materialities and novel forms of bioeconomics. Instead of only studying the way teachers become functionaries within our modern means of (re)production, I want to ask how they sometimes does not. The way the relationship between children and adults are not shaped by technology, not estaslishing distinctions between what childrens ought to know and what adults do know. 

The way the relationship between children and adults are shaped by technology is an underlying element of Christie's story. One which is much more pronounced in other studies of education and of modern knowledge production. In both instances the importance of the text-book (and the formalism of instruction-manuals more broadly) have been much emphasized. However, I approach these relations from the particular angle of material semiotics. Material semiotics is a broad approach towards the study the productive power, vibrant sympolism, or meaning, of materialities. 
-My interest is therefore as much with how human relations are shaped by technology as with how they are not. That is, I try to be symetrical.

-When studying the standardization of learning measurements I therefore try not to study learning as a human or a 'natural' phenomenon. In the last few years it has become widely recognized that machines can learn. When I started this graduate-programe such a widespread recognition of the phenomenon did not yet exist. While 'smart' devices have proliferated throught society, as well as throughout the education system, for the last decade or so I feel lucky to be studying the fascilitation of artificial intelligence within the education system. If not a new development, I would argue that such a translation of a post-human approach to knowledge in the education system is done at a different scale. 

The construction of the data gate is a high profile project supporting the adopting ontologies of digitalized knowledge within the education system. 
-I think its a good idea to approach education within a STS lens. Studying the education system as a whole, and how it extends out into the world through infrastructures of life long learning.
-I follow the making of 'next-generation' authentification infrastructures through their imaginations and across contexts. From the school who have translated their computer network into the cloud and who are intervening into their students and teachers use of computerized tools through the authentification system, to the infrastructure service providers negotiating the means with which to decide who has the resposibility to store, give access too, and (at the same time) protect what data, to the governance bodies who tries to negotiate the boundaries of the education system and promote the formation of a national digitalization strategy.
-This is the challenge studying how openness is performed in the education system, through the problamtization of access and equal opportunity.
This is the 'ontology of openness' and the convergence of technical standards with cultural ones; the relationship between people and technology.


-Moreover though, it is the alinment of authorship to the fascilities that co-ordinate our information infrastructure. 

**Boundaries in the cloud(s) - where Druglitø writes about big science**
This is a case of boundary work in the Norwegian Education Technology sector; the separation between science, politics and industry could only be described empirically.

This is the question of how to study the education cloud?
...articles summarizing research on cloud technology


-Keegan predicted the impact of mobile-education, and indeed these technologies are themselves transformed into something that we now we think of as the internet, or digital knowledge. 
-The idea that if mobile-education - the ability to do education everywhere - has not let communities let their own education then the institutionalisation of mobile technologies must have happened within the boundaries of the school. This idea in itself had a large impact in the 1990s and the 2000s, and is known as the affordance of digital education technology. This was also the period in which several studies was performed which became key in the critical reactions towards the invested interests in education research. Only now are we developing the ability to ask whether the ability to parttake in external affairs through real-time media caused the change in education that it predicted?

These are questions that are gaining a great deal of attention accross a range of sectors of industry, government, science, and, of course, the education system.
-This is most well known through the rise of the field of Learning Analytics (LA), a movement that in many ways are related to Artificial Intelligence (AI). Adaptive systems are thought of as a flip-side to AI; IA. 


-I ask how cognitive computing is linking 
changing the way pedagogies are cared for within the classroom.

-More than just asking how survaillance is strengthened I ask how weakness is constructed within these governance schemas. 
More than pointing to the critical tradition represented by Christie's work I also shape this introduction around the work of researchers on standardization within Science and Technology Studies (STS) like Tone Drugelitrø and her writing about the standardization of mice as research objects. Such .. materialism inspires me as because of the focus on the empirical study of the way these issues are enmeshed in the materialities of science.

-The last three decades there have been a huge shift in the way education technologies have been conceptualized, built and governed. This thesis is about the way this shift has been co-performed with the way learning is accounted for and standardized.
-Follwing the constuction of a socio-technical standard of progression there makes learning into something outside of the human..


**'good survaillance': Emergence and the construction of very large infrastructures**
-I however ask how this history is intertwined with the history of the internet. In roughly the same period the internet was commercialized.
-The historiography of the education cloud; I ask whether it is a new phenomena, or how it should could be seen as continuation of analogue LMS, such as proposed by researchers such as Francis Lee in his comparason of communicative systems. 
-I study the relationship between teachers and aministrators by studying the flow of educational data between the spaces of the classroom and the office. Thinking of such flows as educational data is of course a new phenomenon, so in my ethnographic study I look at how the idea itself is being used.
-However, I study these questions in forums in which the security of educational institutions is compared with oil-platforms.
-How can we understand such comparisons from a pragmatic perspective?



**Crisismaking and risk management in the age of Big Data (science)**

-I parttake in crisismaking in the age of big data; how can the government parttake, and how will they be able to compete in a market in which 'good data' is competed for - a reverse meaning of 'good survaillance'.
-In the last two to three years literature has emerged on what we can call digital educational governance. These are continuations on concerns that have long been associated with the measurement of education.
-The development in educational governance standards has been rampent throughout the history of education..
-However, another kind of urgency has been associated with the (so-called) neo-liberal agenda. 
-Neo-liberalism is a complex concept that are thrown around so much these days that it is being washed out. In a sense the scholarly movements towards a 'new materialism' could perhaps be said to be a reaction towards such totalizing analysis, in the same way that ANT (and 'anti-modernists' like Latour) reacted against the post-structuralists/structuralists, and these in turn reacted against different forms of Neo-marxism etc. etc. 
-Neo-liberalism could however in productive ways be linked with (what at least in an ango-saxon sense is understood as) new public management, and what in the educational sector has been known as goal-oriented work. (Management, performance standards, output controls, decentralization, competition, private-sector management, cost reduction). 
-The link between the paradigm of goal-oriented learning and equity ethics in the digital learning environment has been essential in my thesis. 
-Studying the history of the LMS means studying how such goals are developed, stated and accounted for.

-Studies of the neo-liberal in education goes to the core of the study of 'agecement' in STS. 
-Foucault's study of the productive power of the development of 'technologies of the self' in modern society are infamous in academics cirles far beyond the 'cannon' of STS literature. 
-Among the famous STS writers John Law studied how the nature of the museum is changing, and the meaning of the real and its realtionship with the witness. 
-Other authors doing so are Sherry Turkle. She argues that one should not study the developments of large computers, but we should concentrate on the way that our relationship with computers have changed our minds. 
-Instead of laying clame to the study of these shifts, or even laying clame to the fact that such a shift is happening, I ask how such a shift is accounted for in education.
-My pragmatic approach therefore lets me ask how the learning goals perform as measures of learning. This is essential to be able to see how the materiality of learning itself is changed. It lets me ask about the materiality of (new media) literacy measures. 

-How are interactivity within the frame of the computer window done in the educational network?
-The idea of the education network is developed throught this thesis, and can only be thought of as a composite of actors..

Questions about what the effects of measuring and publizising data about school performance have been rampent since its beginning in the early 2000s. 
-While in the forums I studied (such as the Uninett meeting) a whole other kind of measure was discussed; the willingness and ability of institutions to publizise information otherwise deemed irrelevant to the state. This is the positive power of accounting practice.
-Storing personal data 'publicly'; how is openness performed in 'big data' society (the socialization of big data). 
-I therefore look at another kind of 'heatmap'; the map of adoption of the feide-authentification standard among Norwegian educational institutions.
-Among the many recent articles about the rising awareness around risks in education technology few have..
-Like Druglitø I ask how these developments have been dependent on transnational networks. I have studied the hybrid forums in which communities of experts come together and discuss the adoption of the standard in the Norwegian education system.
-Around the turn of the millenia the Norwegian education system made a transition from a localized governance system to a transnational one. I ask how this transition became a continuation, as much as a shift, of relations between the school system and the state.
-In **læringskomiteen**, or the learning comitee, a new world emerged. 








**The poitics and construction of industrial internets**
-The regulation of the internet is an understudied issue. We are going through a fourth industrial revolution; one in which data itself is being 'industrialized'. 
-I am studying the translation from 'privacy' to 'personal information management' (PIM). This is related to the economization of digital content and the political economy of openness. I try to study openness both as an issue of security and of economics, or the political economy of openness in education.

-I want to study the 'fascilitation of a risky object', as I look at how 'personal profiles' are integrated into different information infrastructures in education and how an 'Internet of Things' are being constructed in the classroom. 
-More specifically I study the emergence of a PIM standard within the case of national authentification scheme for the education sector. 





**Experimental cultures in cognitive computing survaillence systems**
Only in chapter three am I able to give a comprehensive defintion of the materiality of the education network.
It is built up of students and their literacies, the placed resources of the standardized learning environment, and the mediation practice of teachers.

Deep mind and deep learning
Caring for pedagogies; agency and instructional design in the age of learning analytics

