
**Ethnomethodology, the ecology of the cloud and computer science in education governance**

I started off talking to computer scientists within education. Performing experiments and their labs. etc..

How do you study agency within the evolution of educational technology design? How does it relate to information design, or the 'forms' of knowledge that are given prominence? The influence of different forms of experties.


Investigating the scaling of semantic software; how leaning science is co-created within the education system, and how it is 'brought to life' in pedagogy. I will now show how I study such systemness in education by describing how 'learning science' is translated through an intervention into the education cloud and pedagogic practice, simultaneously co-creating the two.

I look at the translation and co-modification of two external fields outside traditional educational research.


1. Cloud technology and an evolution of Big Data into artificial intelligence. Only in the last few years have studies of Big Data in educational governance emerged. The social life of social data, or the re-production of the social in digital analytics. I have developed a passion for the issue access to such information and information security restricting 'openness' and the spread of knowledge in the public realm. I developed this interest while parttaking in a hackaton hosted by the Norwegian mapping authority as well as DIFI, and promoting the use of so call Open Data provided by these public institutions. I was lucky enough to be apart of a group that won the competition and got to go to the Slush conference in Helsinki. Again I found public representatives like the Norwegian Crown Prinse taking part in the promotion of such Open Knowldge, and I was introduced to the Scandinavian community of researchers, activits and institutions promoting the convergence of future-oriented information standards among national networks like museums. This culminated in an interest with the positive power of these information technologies in the public realm. I literally study the valuation of such data as 'good', but not as being an inherent part of any one constalation of actors. I therefore originally wanted to perform a comparative study of Facebook and Google, before reuniting this interest with my knowledge and interest in the education system. This, in many ways, was a powerful move, as the application of pragmatic empiricism within computer science in education have had meant that I have had the luxuary of being met with great interest by actors almost everywhere I go. 

2. Related to this is the influence I from my psychology studies to my understanding of deep learning as a post-human phenomenon. 

This was how I understood the translation of learning science into the world of information technology. More than a field that studies humans in interactions with computers the field of machine learning is best understood as the study of computers in interaction with other computers. While the likes of Star and Suchman has studied ecologies of infrastructure (the mediation of human and non-human fascilitators) and their interaction - or agency among actor-networks - I wanted to be serious about studying such ecologies of infrastructure among different networks of computers; or the way that computers track networks. How is this epistemics translated back to the study of humans. 
-The deep mind project was said to work like a brain, or more specifically like nurons in a brain. 



I am inspired by new materialism and apply a form of methodological minimalism to the study of openness in education. 

I study how computers work as accounting devices within material spaces of learning.

I use the latourian concept of inscription. I look at how the computer, like Latour's machine, intervenes into the learning of the human and at the same time inscribes learning onto something else. The ability of the inscription device to produce tokens is therefore in question. 

-I apply the latourian approach to flow of learners (the petry dish), teachers (scientists) and learning technology (machines) through the school and the way that learning materials inscribe data that circulate as text in the school and beyond.
The data cannot be said to circulate within the research institute (or the school) because of the lack of agreement. 


Instead of writing about the heros and the building of an empire, I write about a standard, its side-effects and how its weakness (as well as the co-construction of weakness in others) is cared for.

-I therefore incorporate a study of conflicting interests among different groups that objects circulate inbetween by trying to ask 'where the objects come from'. My aim has been to study the emergence of a boundary object (the ontological approach to education technology, or deep learning), but it is probably as true to say that I have followed the infrastructure and performed a study of scale (the construction of the national framework).

I look at the materiality of digital flows. I am particularly interested in the dynamic (friction) between digital text and images. I study how they co-modify the platforms on which they are displayed and which endevors to lay clame to them through their integration mechanisms. Very little is written about the computer in a historical context and I have not had the luxary of a well documented historical perspective from which to begin my investigation. I have worked with a multicited ethnographic approach which looks at how the idea of being here and out there is simultaneously enacted.

I study the authentification portal as a form of mobile-technology. I therefore endevored to turn the question of how (knowledge) objects are brought into the classroom on its head, and instead ask how referential learning 'out there' is being shaped by the portal. Can really students 'learn to become' part of communities in the 'real world', instead of learning objective knowledge in preparation for such endevors like the literature on the influence of the internet (and the long-tail model of production in the digital economy) in education have proclaimed? And if so then 'how'?



I have been particularly interested in mechanisms of 'dynamic computing', which forms the foundation for what we know as cloud computing.
It is a relative simple mechanism in which databases, or more specifically, spreadshits, are integrated. 
To understand how the spreadshit could reorient itself around a particular cell in a spreadsheet one have to have a better understanding off the principles of the digital binary logic. 
*I had to think back to the idea of the wooden computer, created by pascal or someone like that*


When I study the authentification portal I the imaginations of the 'cell' has been paramount. 

My inspiration from the new materialists shines through as I endevore to study these relationships within the virtual spaces of the school.
To study the infrastructure I had to perform an infrastructure inversion however, meaning that I also followed the imaginations that was associated with the experts that I got through the videos online as well as throughout my study; the 'geeks' responsible for the administration of IT.

*Although I am inspired by 'new materialism' my grounded approach to the ethnographic work I have to be reflexive and give account of my own influence*

The influence of the 'cell' and its imaginations was particularly important to me.

Inside the world of education everyone imagine that I either study some question of pedagogy or what they call the 'structural' approach, including educational history etc. There are very few studies done about the framing of particular technologies in education. The massive influence that digital technologies have on education have been well documented (at least in terms of the mass of literature), but these are studies of educational phenomena like Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) or (in the last two or three years) studies of digital educational governance and the influence and power of dataprocessing enterprises, like Parson. Such studies exist within subfields of computer science, like the interdisciplinary field of Computer-Human Interaction, and hybrid communities like those dedicated to the study of Technology Enhanced Learning. It has been well documented within STS that even though sociologists parttake in such endevors they are as much part of the construction of the field as the technical experts (Callon..). There have been regular calls for the study of a critical sociology of high-tech education (Selwyn   ) which is right in criticizing educational research for exlusive concern with 'best practice' and its exclusion of that which do not positively effect 'learning' as measured. 

-the spreadsheet as the source of dynamic, personalized computing and its grosely underestimated influence within the internet landscape.
-A important and (to my knowledge) unaswered question within educational research is why the hype of personalized learning environments never materialized within an so-called 'educational cloud'. I furthermore know this because I was recomended to study 'Learning Management Systems' (LMS) by researchers working between norway and the US in a period in which I had already done a study of the influence of LMS is the educational innovation system a year earlier. There was very few 'exahstive' studies despite its almost 30 year long history. One reason for this is because of the issue of size and what could be thaught of as the 'right' scale and scope of such a study. There are studies of scale in large school districts like New York, but how could one determine that this was a suitable institutional constalation...

I had been critical of the lack of complexity within social media platforms since I first started using them, and as I started to become familiar with the world of geeks, the 'fixing' of distributed software, and the politics of ownership (Reference to Kelty, blockchain conferences and my transnational experience in Oslo) I begun to read about efforts to establish standards for decentralized social media in the very internet infrastructure. I return to this history in the final chapter. However it is adequate to mention that I learned of the posibilities of the internet.
-The (relatively) renowned 'browser war' and 'search engine war' of the first generation of the commercial internet in the 1990s had not come to an end in the second generation, the Web.2.0. These generational analogies used among geeks are useful to understand the evolution of the internet.  youtube and social media that after the dotcom bubble. 

-Web.3.0. and the emergence of open data: Open Science, Open markets, and Open politics.

**I look at who has the agency to shape the technology**



