

**Chapter one - The materiality of teaching/pedagogy**


**Gamification: attaching 'individuals' to the materialities of learning** (perhaps part of the ethnomethodology chapter)
-Business intelligence and the co-production of the 'cloud': the intranet as internal and external.
-Digital 'metaphors' in education and windows of objectivity: Expanding and theorizing the dialectics of the *'metaphors' of play and gamification.*
-Tokens as information infrastructure serving who? positive power and the freedom of mobility.


**associations and non-associations with the Subject-reference**
-Ordering materialities: handing out materials vs. performing an (materialistic) experience.
-Some materials point forward and other backwards at performances of classing. 
-These are networks of 'learning materials', students and teachers. These have often been identified as individualized learning activities, communal learning activities or instructional learning activities. 
-Sørensen however points out that instead of seeing these forms of presence on a continuoum they could rather be understood as forms of authority.
-I build on this approach and say that the continuum is performed as formalism associated with the organisation and temporality of schooling.
-An ethics that is structured around the temporal fixation of the exam at the end of the 10th grade. What is it that 'should' have moved through these spaces, and what does this argument have to do with 'technologies of the self', or self-regulation?
-I want to suggest that one has to look at the way that the organization happens; not just the presence of pedagogic relationships. In fact much of the pedagogic relationship is hidden by the teacher, as well as from the teacher.

-The kids are legally obligated to be in the classroom attended by a teacher, but beyond that 'pedagogic philosophy' is the only thing that specifies the relationship between kids and the materialities of learning.
-The teacher is said to have alot of power, but not much agency. How is this to be understood through the study of information infrastructure and its agencification?


**The 'teacher-multiple'**
-How is their power productive, or what do they actually produce: the latourian study of flow.
-Alignment and the enactment of authorship (objectivity and the mediation of opinion/subjectivity). Both the groups and 'my study' is being mediated as the teachers struggle to pigeonhole what I am doing; imaginations and formalism.
-Separation: Caring for the person and caring for the instruction: forms of power/autonomy.
-Both have to be perfomed, causing uncertainty; who and what am I studying (the teacher subject)



**Open Data, hybrid forums, and the role of the government** (ch.3; in comparison with the ethics of openness in the learning committee?)

I write about the ecology-metaphor in education research and design and its associations with the systemness of the 'cell'.

Going into the school with an interest in openness and the frame of objectivity. How do you study these publics pragmatically? 

It was not easy to 'see' the education cloud online. It is muted.
 
On the other hand, having been at the education fair and the slush conference in sequence; 
-the providors creating environments to look and talk to; getting a business-card and the traditional commerical merchendise, or propaganda. However, only Atea and Oslo EdTech Cluster beginning to replicate the sort of interactive environment that I saw at Slush; giving talks - or what better could be described as a demonstration in the guise of a show (a spectacle) - and educating. Having strategists available, not only the customer-contact; ready to form strategically durable relationships fit for the 'outcome-based economy'.

The children was treated as a different kind of public. How does it reflect the sepration between the functionary and the strategist? And furthermore, in what way does this separation again re-produce the narrative of boundary work given by Star?


-While the halls of the fairs had become more and more open in their strive for interactive imersian, transparrency, and hybridity, the 	hallways of the school building were closed off. 
-The building halfway squared in an asfalted area, mostly empty, but dotted with a pin-pong table and a basketball hoop. Beyond this area were sports-fields. The other sides of the building were surrounded by grass or parkinglot. It was not meant for the movement of children. 

Not all schools are shaped this. In the same school region I also visited a building recently built, which had a markably different kind of architecture. There transparency was enacted through the open spaces innside the building. The organic, multiple-angular shape of the building had several doors leading out into a large (it had grown a gread deal as the different buildings had all been integrated) recreational landscape reminisent of a park. Although these parks were not built out of 'nature', they mimicked nature. There were climbing-frames shaped like trees and bushes, a rubbery-soft footbed covering the ground (and even small hills) like grass, and ball-parks in the shape of ponds. Entering the building one come into an impressively large space..

It was in these different (heterogeneous) spaces, and in the circulation and relations between them, that 'transference' is meant to happen. They inhabit, or 'frame', boundaries that extend far beyond their walls (to pretend for second that boundary objects are spatio-temporal), and through them circulates not only different children, but also a plura of knowledge objects and associations that are to remain strong enough to be repeated to each group without too much 'drift', or memory. In other words they have to maintain strong boundaries even in an age of permiable boundaries.






This chapter is about the enactment of the personal and the instructive. Personal relationships between teachers and students are asymetrical, which means that teachers regularly instruct their pupils on their behavior. However, such instructions have to be translated into other tasks in an autonomous fashion. Autonomy does not only happen in any one way. 'Personal' instructions either have to be translated into the experience of moving 'through' subject-spaces in a rather abstract fashion, while personal instructions can also be measured in more direct behavioral terms.

Whereas 'good' instruction design should be clear about the way the task ahead relates to the instructional material, behavioral instructions regularly also point back in time. 

Negative and positive power is exerted both in instructional design and behavioral instructions. 
Some instruction designs are abstract and others are more concrete. Some behavior is instructed to stop, and others is encouraged. These instructions often inhabit different spaces. 






I look at what is 'brought into the classroom' (through the portal of access). I see that is not so simple that memory practice is simply performed in the orchestration of the textbook, blackboard and notebook. In fact with the following qoute one could argue that the textbook (which has been suggested to be another sort of boundary object) is not well suited for iterative (recursive) work. One would have to imagine the teacher taking the class into the library, or his/her work based around this space. The search engine on the other hand furfills the following requirements: 

Star, 2010. p.603-604
Refering back to Original 'Boundary Object' article: 
"...a repository, took the form of a set of modular things. These are things that might be individually removed without collapsing or changing the structure of a whole. A library, for example, or a collection of case studies (as in some parts of medicine, or in the Talmud), is a repository.
A repository of this sort comes from the need for an assembly of things that are conceived iteratively. It has the feature that heterogeneity (internally) across things can be maintained but need not become confrontational. In a repository, the heuristic advantage is the encapsulation of internal units (the pages of a book are bound by covers or electronic conventions; the limits of a Web site by the initial URL)."

Perhaps one could even argue that the extension of iterative processes into the bureaucracy of the state and enterprise has been linked to the development of experties and 'knowledge work' (the imaginary of mobile-learning). 

How is this linked to the development of Knowledge Management Systems, and how does such business intelligence standards affect the valuation and accounting practices of knowledge in so called Enterprise Resource Planning systems?



If the tree structure was linked with an idealised form of the state (in local/education) how are other openness standards translated into education as one adopt an enterprise authentification system? Research became associated with educational establishments over the course of the twentieth century, and the research establishments that were associated with the development of the Internet was as closely associated with the miliatary and industry as with educators - their ethics were not attached. It is worth asking therefore whether the it is the educational theory's fault that knowledge is being objectified, or whether it is the political economy of the educational establishment (I think that it is this that Foucualt did when he pointed to the prevelent use of 'technologies of the self'). The military's approach to educational theory was based on a model in which one could predict what had to be learned, but it is not then adequate to conclude that 'understanding by design' is an issue of the cone model (non-abstraction to abstraction) alone. The way that individualization is accounted for is almost more important.






**Self-regulation as a accounting principle**


The relationship between the teacher and inspectors the lack of physical assimilation is productive, in the same way that the 'teacher-being space' has been and still is. The split position of these spaces in the middle of the school (around the main entrance and hallway) therefore shows that in the 'neo-liberal' governance schema, is based on a form of trust associated with the accounting devices














