
23.1. Chapter overview:

**Introduction**

**Constructing industrial internets**
-The regulation of the internet is an understudied issue. 
-I want to study the 'fascilitation of a risky object', as I look at how 'personal profiles' are integrated into different information infrastructures in education and how an 'Internet of Things' are being constructed in the classroom. 


**Chapter one - The materiality of pedagogy**

**Attaching 'individuals' to the materialities of learning**
-Ordering materialities: handing out materials vs. performing an (materialistic) experience.
-Some materials point forward and other backwards at performances of classing. 
-These are networks of 'learning materials', students and teachers. These have often been identified as individualized learning activities, communal learning activities or instructional learning activities. 
-Sørensen however points out that instead of seeing these forms of presence on a continuoum they could rather be understood as forms of authority.
-I build on this approach and say that the continuum is performed as formalism associated with the organisation and temporality of schooling.
-An ethics that is structured around the temporal fixation of the exam at the end of the 10th grade. 
-Going beyond this I want to suggest that one has to look at the way that the organization happens; not just the presence of pedagogic relationships. In fact much of the pedagogic relationship is hidden by the teacher, as well as from the teacher.

-The kids are legally obligated to be in the classroom attended by a teacher, but beyond that 'pedagogic philosophy' is the only thing that specifies the relationship between kids and the materialities of learning.
-The teacher is said to have alot of power, but not much agency.
-Information infrastructure and the effect on agency.


**The 'teacher-multiple'**
-How is their power productive, or what do they actually produce: the latourian study of flow.
-Alignment and the enactment of authorship (objectivity and the mediation of opinion/subjectivity)
-Separation: Caring for the person and caring for the instruction: forms of power/autonomy.
-Both have to be perfomed, causing uncertainty.



-Formalism and realism 

This chapter is about the enactment of the personal and the instructive. Personal relationships between teachers and students are asymetrical, which means that teachers regularly instruct their pupils on their behavior. However, such instructions have to be translated into other tasks in an autonomous fashion. Autonomy does not only happen in any one way. 'Personal' instructions either have to be translated into the experience of moving 'through' subject-spaces in a rather abstract fashion, while personal instructions can also be measured in more direct behavioral terms.

Whereas 'good' instruction design should be clear about the way the task ahead relates to the instructional material, behavioral instructions regularly also point back in time. 

Negative and positive power is exerted both in instructional design and behavioral instructions. 
Some instruction designs are abstract and others are more concrete. Some behavior is instructed to stop, and others is encouraged. These instructions often inhabit different spaces. 






**Chapter two - Accounting practices and the integration of school regions**
*by regions I mean spaces of the school, areas of experties, as well as the integration of the school infrastructure with that of the school region. While the schools physical infrastructure has to be characterized as their own version of a municipality infrastructure design, the school region is an area of (political) experties.*


**Twitch: Chategory systems and the strength of a platform**
-Sharing culture and communicating the openess strategy (to the teachers)


**The competition**
Teachers do compete for the experience, and how experience should count towards accounting for competence is a controvercial issue (see news article). Professionalisation happens as much through the exclusion of groups as through associations with competence and areas of responsibility. 

One controversy that is significant is the presence that administrators have with teachers. I saw that the administration was critisized for not asking about the personal life of the teachers, but focusing on standardized goals such as the use of digital tools. 

One could ask whether this controvercy within the ethics of educational governance was due to infrastructure being in flux. I certainly saw a strengthening of divisions in responsibility as new infrastructure was put in place by an 'administrative supervisor' who intervened into the relationship between teachers and their substitutes (what could be thought of as a personal relationship).
