
**the failure of the network as a problem of integration and complexity; a failure to account for forms of legitimacy**

29.1 Lydklipp FinTech Vs EdTech

*This is about the effort to write about financial technology and what that has to do with the developments of educational platforms and the authentification standard etc. It is a long time since I was having these thoughts. I haven't thought of the role of fintech vs edtech since the very beginning of my research on the education cloud.* 


How can fintech work as a repository, or a boundary object? This got something to do with accountancy practices, in which i.e. the iterative process is in development. The Visma system got to translate that which is happening among the teacher community to that which the administration reads/observes and governs/manages with. However, to say that they govern/manage via such documentation is also wrong. I could call this Foucauldian, but its a simple missunderstanding that basically have to be cleared up. 

In the interative process of the administration they are doing law. They aren't activily managing these numbers, because it is the teachers who manage the processes of inscription. The administration on the other hand 'approves', or does the actuall bureaucratic work of remaining distant. The government is as such weak, but they depend on that which is done by the number-technologies. Numbers that they can intervene with or into, but that they are not free to manage directly. 

This is an old thaught that I worked with to associate Visma with the governance of the school, having been thinking about the economic power of the principal and school administration and their autonomy to make desicions about education technology and the design of the educational space. 
-*I could not get an exact overview of who was responsible for buying what, but it was clear that while the principal had the authority to make* **financial decisions**, *and the science teacher could perhaps buy some equipment, the design of the building was subject to a wider ecology*

I became aware of the different roles and specialities of the supervisors when talking with Ingebjørg. She was responsible for the handling the rights of children with different needs, handling the papers and ordering the actions among different institutions within the school. This in itself shows that she as a pedagogic supervisors is handling one part of the pedagogic work. I found that other supervisors, like the administrative supervisor, was working closer up on the construction of the pedagogic system (under study). The one most directly involved is the former 'engaged teacher'. He orders processes and systems that are relative autonomous, like the development of Sokrates and the extension of documentation routines in meeting (though not directly in the classroom). It was in a sence random that he handles these different tasks/responsibility, though it he is said to represent the teachers through different (though technically contradicting) 'political' positions. 

The Visma system (handled by Ingebjørg, the secretary, the prinsiples and the teachers-multiple) has a detached history. It does not belong to the teachers, but to the municipality, or the regional-municipality. I become more aware of the politics in the learning committee and can return to that later. However, what I find in the school is that (other than the fact that this is confusing and has to be studied empirically) the consequences is this system that by law is meant to mediate the educational reform also distinguishes the reform of (education governance) politics from the reform work of educators. Such reforms are continuous and they are fundamental to the management of the individual. Not only the school as a whole. It would be difficult to explain the difference between the reform work and the 'education'/formation work, considering that it is the teacher that perform both. 


This is a system in which the teachers are meant to supervise themselves. One could turn to foucauldian theory, however I could also turn to Star and Bowkers study of sorting/chategory standards in the workplace. When I then consider the role of FinTech in the emergence of EdTech itself it is important to consider the hype around self-governance and decentralization. The new sence of democratic freedom in the blockchain revolution. But where banks are the first to develop such technologies, because of their interests within this field. 

What are the interests that the school has in adopting a system like Visma? I thought alot about such questions in the beginning of my research. It is a well functioning system used by many small enterprices. Economization happens by virtue of technologies of validation; evidence of the scale of its 'good' regulatory automation. I observe that it leads to stronger security measures and separation of knowledge within the school. So in adition to being 'easy' to adapt by schools of all sizes, it also has an integral governance function; intervening into accountability practice and distribution of responsibility. 

It strengthens separation within the file-system, allowing the prinsiple and supervisors access to all the information (to be analyzed) while restricting access for individual functionaries (who are heterogeneous and un-authorized to handle sensitive labels etc.). This separation can't simply be seen as a restriction however. It needs to be seen as part of the boundary work. It establishes a 'platform' (space of calculation) for automated flow between the 'home' and the school/teacher. Less of the administrative work should be put on the teacher, which is the ideal (imagined) way for teachers to gain the time and resources to consentrate on the evaluation work/process. However, if this requires that the categorization system needs to be extended infinately to be able to adaquately represent the individual student then administrativ/office work is not actually minimized. Where the teacher disengages with the flow between the home and the school, and lets such processes be automated within the documentization work, then the teacher also needs to minimize the information in circulation to avoid the burdens of the iterative process. 

This has both positive and negative consequnces. On the one hand it means that the teacher protects the individual by giving their pupils the freedom to be part of the negotiation before it is 'documented' or accounted for. There is a weakness in that which is being documented for future reference, as well as the weakness associated with the lessoning of work in which the teacher is bound to the relationship with the home. 

The teaches' evaluation is more and more often sent/given to the student, as the delivery processes shapes the work the teacher is meant to be doing. This becomes a form of standardization, in which the feedback on the typical weaknesses that needs to be improved to improve progress. This co-creates expectations towards what is personal feedback and that which is standardized. I observed this when I saw teachers working on the IOP, and the way that they modify, or don't modify, the data that is part of the legal documentation process. Alot of information, or memory, is not included, but the work is concentrated on circulating, and handing onwards, the documents (a conclusion also reached by Hull). The school is responsible for automating (bureaucratically) and simplifying (pedagogically) that which is handed down by other experts and authorities. This is what is meant by the the paradox of de-buraucratization. The process itself leads to more survaillance and the work of being survailed. 

I talk to the teachers about the process of writing/filling in the IOP. In the conversation I observe how they treat that which is written there as 'natural', or part of the (relatively) permanent nature of the personality of the individual in question. The nature is intimately associated with the subject matter, as it defines the person by virtue of simple statemens about what goals needs to be emphasised in their education, and as such, what tasks have to be repetetively done. The special educations teacher reports that such work can be painstakingly boring, and that on a few occations (throughout his/her entire career) he/she has falled asleep. However, it is understood that the nature of what is actually covered is subject to the progression of the class itself, and therefore the choise of the subject-teacher, and sometimes the teacher writing the IOP. 
The foundation of these legal procedures are the systems that documents progression within the subject. The teacher must trust the accounting system, and the quality of the evaluation made by the expert in the wider health (psychological and physical) expert. 

*Quality in this sense does not simply refer to the proficiency of the tests and/or documentation that formed part of the reasoning in advance to the documentation, it refers to the quality of the documentation standard among a range of socio-technical systems. The granuality of the information in the documentation process is as such subject to the knowledge that the teacher gains from reading the documentation - the 'social life' of such documentation in his/her own memory practice (in the classroom, individual conversations, and instructional design processes) - and the knowledge circulating through others accountable, such as inspectors, heath-establishments, parrents, teachers and assistants otherwise aware of the situation, and the child/person him/herself). The lives of these 'labels', the children, or the responsible groups of experts is beyond the scope of this study. For me it is just important to show that the documenation work is based on boundary objects binding together communities of expeties and non-experties. These platforms are and support hybrid forums and involves disagreement as well as collective learning.*

The repetition of the content in the learning materials covered in class is necessary for the teacher's understanding of the individual. Moreover, s/he is accountable to the information given my other subject teachers as s/he is not certain to 'know' the person in question from any of her/his own classes. And beyond that, one is dependent on the feedback being read with an adult in the home. Conversally, while the IOP has negative power, subject-teachers also adopt to these rules. I remember that in the work of developing feedback on progession in English-classes I was giving repetetive and minimal feedback about what had to be emphasised in the students individual practice. The information itself would be of little use if read by the child alone, because when the note is put away it should shape the relationship between the child and the parrent in their approach to the disciplinary work of homework as a 'technology of the self'. That which has to be improved is authorised by the home, and the authorization is created by **associating these remarks with a wider public**. 


The school is the 'owner' of the Visma system, and it logs this form of alignment/authentification/augmentation. My point is that authentification in this account is not done by feide, but by the teacher who checks that students are present, that they behaive, etc. This is also evident in the presentation given by the Oslo municipality, who discuss the fact that they previously only could afford one form of authorization system because of the cost of harmonizing rosters. The system was not built by or for the municipality and although they express the fact that they had to prioritize knowing whether the student was present before anything else this is a reference to ethics beyond everything else. 

I have to understand/read the feide authorification system in relation to the dialectic with this 'other'. Feide has only been used in the development of 'play'; I witnes this at UiO, in which I can build my own database, modify others', and do research. Like Latour points out in research I learn to build instruments. Feide has been developed through principles of openness that I want to study. A principle in which one can build software or modify it. I has nonetheless been attached to the Visma system which is turn is associated with 'disability'. 

I now see that the dominant understanding of disability is changing, and so in turn is the human and discipline. Here I have examples from the different way DNA is treated in the science class and in care for humans as is developed within the 'rest' of the institution. In those spaces in which teachers care for bollying, the feelings of others, and democracy as the standpoint of others. Democracy goes beyond the collective observation of phenomenon, and rather observes the others within a phenomenon, and this is abstract. Just as one can write about the abstract as the subjective. 
The change I saw was in the networks of pedagogic and political programs of reform and development. They were given another geography, or calculative space. At the same time as the nurses that are now allowed to represent knowledge through videos online who are given new authority and as such are able to move closer. Teachers want them to come and talk, but they also start to wonder why they don't take part in the development instruction design, or at least the development of databases of education technology. *this even got a name in the medical community*


The objectivity that is performed in the relationship between the digital book, with its licensing, and pedagogic practice is attached...

I need to try to understand the totality; which is also what the idea of the boundary object points towards. When groups start to work together, and establish common interest such interest is still part of different interests; the fact that they do not agree. Unlike in Callon etc. disagreement persists, but the existance of a goal is still undeniable. So this form or representation of subject teachers - the science teacher etc. - should be understood as a memory practice rather than a fixed member of a group. The memory practice, or boundary object, in question here is the different way of doing objectivity. 

The feide portal that is oriented towards the internet is a lot less stable than one would think. Yes you do got the digital book. They got the right to ask questions about the digital and the digital book because of the recursive public that associates with the digital book is itself unstable. Teachers do got databases with that which they actually hand out. In simons talk he also talks about his techniques, but does not share much information about his database of material. Memory, or saving, on the internet is assicated with the **ontological understanding of learning** which got a weak/lacking memory. 

What is it that is not relevant in the ontological approach to learning? That is forgotten about the achievement of the child? I could elaborate on that by saying that it was in fact argued that the game at the Slush conference had ontological value because it did not matter that different atoms were not associated with the 'real' context of their use. Instead the thing that was valued as important was that they only had an association with the characters of the game, who was also to inhabit some of the characteristics, property, or personality, of (say) carbon. This is the poetic ontological understanding, which at Sluch was not associated with the form of memory in which one could explain the context of carbon in scientific text without further learning. 

It seems therefore as if there is a lack of memory. One can argue that a repitition happened, or the kind of transfer of presence and knowledge that Sørensen describe in the materiality of learning. If objective understanding suggests that one should know something via repetition before a test, after perhaps having covered the same material i class once before, but where very little information is actually available. This is of course also part of a form of ontology, although calling it an epistemic basis for accounting for learning is probably more correct.

The visual textbook has become a experience-based approach to constructivism in the social sciences, in which one is to form an impression of the epistemic 'reality'. This is the idea that one immerse themselves in the experience in a constructivist sence - 'to live into' directly translated from Norwegian, or to take on the experience of others (McKnight). This could be somewhat different in the science class where one needs to understand a rule of cell-ontology (if we think of them treating the human and non-human as equally living). Dealing with having a search-device available in the background; whether that is the microscope, or the SMART-board. 

This is meant as a statement about the internet portal which they are trying to rationalize. To strengthen the rational, or serious, form of play. The game itself gain some form of value, which is difficult to imagine when we think about it as fun, unserious etc.

The notion of memory indicates that a person remembers, knows, and inhabit some form of knowledge after having read (transfered) quite little information. The game-epistemology does not solve this issue. It has to be tested out collectively, in which the internet-approach works exclusively. One can play (a game) but it needs to be associated with the right kind of rationality, the right temporality. One cannot perhaps not give the game more value in the measurement practice that simply tests whether the instruction worked, whether personal presence?

*The game-developers tries to create games that have undeniable effect on learnig. That is immutable in the 'gaming' of the classroom accounting practice* *One have to question what makes the so-called Ontological approach more ontological than the other. I argue that this is because of the way it referes to the reference structure in the digital categorization system*

*How is the complexity of debate dealt with? What does my observation matter? I see that the ontological approach refers to the observation of the information infrastructure and the mutability of digital competense. The teachers deal with this through continuous evaluation procedures, but they also form this into an approach that allows students to relate to their opinion as inherently transferable.*
*If this sort of objective knowledge, in all classes using textbooks, is at one extreme then at the other you find the (gamified) search on the internet in which it is very hard for the students to 'see' the associations, or to make google show them*


Can you say that gamification etc. works in play-presence(*being with the teacher; against the accounting system*)? A presence that have tended to be collective. The class and teacher shifts between the formal and informal form of presence in a unpredictable manner. When the group is meant to 'know' something in the book, but I observe that it is more fun to talk about other interests like life and death, the process must become formalized by the teacher and given value that can be translated back into the disability ontology. 



**Returning to the influence of the fintech**  I started to talk about the system in place (visma) and oriented towards the teacher without belonging to the teachers. Then I turned to the idea of gamification. I am now thinking that 'to game' is a concept associated with the classing-work in the classroom; when the students are gaming the teacher. When they i.e. are using the search-devices, or other tasks, to game the progress of the instruction; i.e. *pretending that they don't know when they know*. Making self-regulation quite problematic. Gamification (like other forms of individualization) remain noticable absent. It remain an imaginary object. There are actually few (i.e. *enclosed* software) games used in the classroom, and those that I observe are unstable in their framing (within temporal extension of the room).

While the teacher resist gamification (like described by various authors; from Christie to Sørensen) the autonomy of the professional is associated with with the power to discipline, as well as (like Star points out) care for the wellbeing of the student body. The teacher 'must' participate in the game, because when students (aclaimingly) 'pretend to not know' they are not safe in the sense that the teacher's caring is accounting for the body before the mind (*a temporality in and off itself*). If someone are in a physical fight, get hurt or are sick, or if the student-body cannot be muted in any other way, the teacher has to leave the classroom and it is the responsiblity of the inspector to react

*In chapter 1 idealy I should show that in the relationship between the teacher and inspectors the lack of physical assimilation is productive, in the same way that the 'teacher-being space' has been and still is. The split position of these spaces in the middle of the school (around the main entrance and hallway) therefore shows that in the 'neo-liberal' governance schema, is based on a form of trust associated with the accounting devices*

*To use this analogy for encloselment means that I here would focus on explaining the virtual. I later talk about introducing the legality of the virtual use of classrooms in this chapter, and now I think that this can be associated with the failure of the network and the legitimacy of the intranet/cloud*

I belive it is correct to draw associations back to the 'classroom'. It is this space (the organized organizatino and the distance of 'disability specialization') which is 'industralized' (or problematized in ped.experties) when the feedback-mechanism which is talked about is a kind of 'normal' seen from the perspective of the classroom-approach to that which is **mastered**. So this it is a question of how the classroom is translated, because this is the issue of the practice of measuring progression. While the Visma-service has let the teacher inscribe classroom activity it has also furthermore fascilitated negotiations between personal and team-autonomy.

*from intranet - within local-institutionalization of i.e. legal-texts vs. other texts available online - where teachers are responsible for these technical developments, to a regional-cloud in which a pedagogic-inspector is responsiblity for the presentation of a frontstage and enclosing the cloud-environment through the different portals that integrated there.*

How each and every one fascilitates the relatinship/separation between games and documents is performed. One cannot standardize what it is that is to be 'constructed'. It is not like in the military, because one has to standardize the order of that which has to be done. Not the order of that which the task-conduct should incorporate. Such an order is to be abstracted to be 'transferable'. One learns to transfer the elements of the task in to new instruction designs, or simply instructions so to avoid talking about the abstraction. 

*while Suchman could perhaps manages to talk about 'imaginations of informed bodies' in the military this analogy in some way has to be turned on its head in schools, because orders are not to be handed down but to emerge within (in the imagination that is performed)* 

The way that the teacher is disciplining the body of the individual is related to the accounting devices or boundary object. The textbook/visma boundary object allows play and creativity, in just the same way that Visma is meant to allow creativity in small firms. 'Regulation' is meant to be done in a "good" way. 

That which is thaught/learned about 'society' is different.. Play is performed differently. One play different roles, just as the term would imply. *I see that there is some difference between play and games, and I ask something like how they are connected.* **How play is gamified** is a question that emerges, and that I don't know whether even Foucault addressed. It is an important question because play that is performed within a class suggets a technology of the self, in which one removes students from the classroom to perform the personal and protected. This is arguably evident as 'angst' inside the classroom is treated differently. It is transferable and might drift into a politics that is related to the home. Angst in the classroom is something that is regulated in a different way, via the disciplin of the instruments of search; the other rooms are used to separate such experiences and the rights of the student is very much associated with such questions of architecture and the maintanence of a design and policy. 

It is not true to say that I observed these kind of separations in the school, as I simply was not allowed or did not pursue the option of being a witnes. However I learned about this online; about rights and design. Much in the same way that I was encouraged to learned alot of other things about the duty of working in a school - a media channel used extensively is the geography of the schools political economy. 

The discipline of the instruments; how well you can attach instruments to a person is a question I have raised when I have talked about the pedagogic approach to the digital (an the ontological approach). I need a distance from the pedagogic conclustion. Although it is an important 'side-effect' and a sentral element secondary to my theoretical interest (part of the case), it is not my conclusion. I will rather return to the fact that the teacher needs to be careful to look after the 'group', and make sure the 'schedule' fits together; there should be communal experiences as they are valued by the school (in relation to law). Despite the fact that the teacher is performing care and has personal responsibility there is a contradiction... My conclusion is that the teacher has to make sure the group is not overly 'self-regulated'. 

In the model I made in Nice I stated that one could either perform an individualized or an abstract form of approach. This does not say that much about the involvement of the group. Whether the groups is self-governed, or not (defined by another's narrative (autopoetic)). The model that I set this kind of argument up against is the model in which these forms of pedagogies are put on a scale. I argue that STS researchers would approach models in a different maner, and especially the difference between the linar and the network approach. The latter being more prone towards analysing nodes in trangular relationships. In a sense I therefore try to theorize how sørensen's model could be coherently explored in a diagram.

It is correct to say that the teacher has to be able to interest the group in what-ever form of material they are presented. Such an interestment can happen via violence or high-intensity stimuly in a positive sense (abstraction through encapsulation), or (on the other hand) a creative freedom. 

**My question is how does the discipline, or technology, of the semiotic body/self have a positive power?**

The group is difficult (or totally fucked up) to govern without a 'plan'. The plan is central. I could say a bit about the fact that the game does not suggest a specific form of understanding in relation to the plan, but combines elements like the search-device and the epistemology of the teacher; what in the literature has been grouped (in an influential model) into communication-theory and learning-theory. 

It is different to say that the group that is governed has to be governed on the basis of a form of discipline ...?

-Thinking about Espen who is struggling to keep controll over the creative process in preperation for the Christmas break, and the creative opportunity afforded by the venture into art-work; associated with the ecological. He has a headache and is frustrated after being with the group, as he tries to pick out individuals to talk to, and is in a sense both accountable to the instruction and is together with the arts teacher (perhaps even in the other part of the building. It is not clearly defined what the students should be doing, or who the products are meant for. Whether for example they are to hang on a wall and should be constructed in a certain way, and represent a certain group, how many should be produced etc. In the same way, it is not clearly defined what the effects of the movie should be. In the imagination of Espen it should produce some kind of experience, or feeling associated with a subject. 

In a sense this is the same kind of gamification. The game is meant to control play, instead of producing an achieved (predefined) rationality. The goal of controlling the game is ordered, or valued, as a prioritization, before the ratinality. This is what we talk about when we consider education as 'cultural capital', or education as the 'formation' of the person (a direct translation of the important norwegian term 'dannelse'). 
What one 'needs' to be part of a society and its codes, etc. is mediated by the needs of the classroom as part of the society of the school.

**restriction on the autonomy/agency of the teacher**
As the teacher is performing the law, and is doing the pedagogic mission of education - the formation of an independent person within a culture - he is disciplining, but he is also being disciplined (*is this the meaning of the teacher-multiple?*). As s/he is bringing into life the curriculum it is also disciplining that which is done. And if it is done in a constructivistic way or an objective way, the question remains how one allow space for repetition. 

How is memory practices imagined/expected, and how are literacy performed as a placement of learning materials? And how do you imagine/expect self-regulation? 

Through my position/experience as an STS researcher at the school (the latourian approach) I saw that goals are acknowledged as social when one describes them through verbs and activities. However, social science is not acknowledged. I observe that the work that that the nurses in the school region has performed has been of a second grade nature. I also discuss social scientific research on the history (or historiography) of the internet as an abstract about 'things out in society'; a discussion about the development of writing, text and news. This is the sense to which I belived that they were engaging with such forms of knowledge. 

*The witnessing of 'scientific fact' was imagined to (in principle) be available to everyone. Like Shaphin and Shaper point out it does not though. It is more like an association with a public. The social-scientific fact on the other hand had to be observed through the privilaged position of the bureaucrat or (equally) the sociologist studying them. They were associated with the mission of the state, or that which to a ever larger degree is associated with networks of corporate affairs, or the business of intelectual property.*
*Although Latour tries to get other social scientists to re-consider objectivity in the social, perhaps we need to study how objectivity is performed among all those studying the social. I belive this is the mission of studying opinion*

To consider Latour's approach that which is 'done socially' is hidden, or at least 'muted'. This way I begin to talk about social science as something that is *abstracted* (within i.e. 'news' text), however, the 'subjective' in the discourse of education (everyday language) is not talked about as **abstracted**. It is rather talked about as something abstract. One (i.e. teachers making tests) wants to see it made abstract. 



It now looks like I get 4 chapters: 
-one in which I look at the boundary objects in the school as the ambitions of the repository, and the comparison of the textbook etc. The authentification portal got a concrete role in that. 
-In the second chapter (or last part of the first period of research) I look at the systems that 'come into the classroom' and intervene into these boundaries; the materiality of the systems and 'nature'(experience) of studying digital knowledge (as I have discussed here). Here I return to the discussion I had with my dad in Nice about what it is that is known (in memory practice) about the way that the information infrastructure is constructed (Star and Bowker); the knowledge and care practices that is valued. This is done by virtue of 'informatics'. This simply being understood as 'computer science', and 'human-computer interaction' on the other hand remaining a different form of experties. 

My point is that the social is central in informatics; it considers communication theory. I emphasise that this has to be appreciated, because if one looks simply at the education theory one lacks the 'antropological distance' from the role of the 'Ed' as a 'framework' in emergence of EdTech and new forms of objectivity. That which the system achieves or doesn't achieve is handled by a pedagogic-representative and not the IT-supervisor. The training within the posibilities in the 365 system (a system with a different degree of virtuality) that s/he is responsible for is limited. 

From this I can draw conclusions about the nature of that which is 'personal' on the computer, and the accountancy devices of the teacher. That which is required to be part of the platform of organisation, team or pedagogic developmental group, but that remain 'subject' to the mediating 'opinion' of the teacher as an accountable expert. *A mediator of measures of security in the organisation of the municipality's bioeconomy, and/or political economy.* 

This platform associated the Microsoft ID represents a counterweight in the sense that Visma represents a municipality system while the cloud is explicitly pedagogically oriented; *muting other forms of representation*. What I told my dad was that the knowledge about that which works and doesn't within these contexts is retarded. This must have become even more evident as I find out that Socrates in a national platform, not a local one simply associated with Lier municipality. It is the formal collaboratory partner or Microsoft (*shaped by the security of the formal contract*). 

They are part of Microsofts school strategy (effort as an network), and I observe that Microsoft is intervening into the work of interesting the pedagogic institutions and their accountancy practices. They offer a portal in which the cloud systems are to be constructed; performing an ecosystem ontology, which are automatically/directly adapt. This automated adaption - cognitive approach to dynamic (pattern recognition) software - happens within the devices themselves. 

This is my starting point as I move on from looking at the platform to looking at the cloud-technology as PaaS within a cloud-ecology; the space between IaaS and SaaS. In which the individualization process happens *after* the production of the material; automating the framework of the classroom and not the one that is disciplining. 



