
Temaer og valg (agency)
Klasser handler om å klassifisere og når lærere velger læremateriell går mye av arbeidet ut på å klassifisere forskjellige ressurser. Før ville dette være snakk om sentrale verk, enten fra bibelen, norsk nasjonal historie og/eller fra vitenskapelige/akademiske verk. Men slik som objektene som lærerne samlet inn fra samfunnet og naturen søkte læreren læremateriell etter tema.

Lisa is preparing the next work-plan. Or, more broadly, she is preparing the teaching period to come. We talk about the digital resources that she uses in her teaching. In the morning she mentioned her use of a digital German textbook where she were getting her texts and tasks. I ask her about whether things are different in the English subject. She says that the way she and Max is working in English is indeed different. 'He isn't any book slave either'. 'When we plan our teaching we throw ideas back and forth. I think it's great.' She says that 'last year, when we were working at the 10th grade, I think I could count on two hands the times when we were using books. We had great results. They were good at listening, reading, everything. We used use youtube a lot. Songs..' Like in her German tutoring Lisa does use some digital resources, like Agendaweb.org, which is a site used in American schools. It's good for grammar and things like that, but in English there are also so many other media other than specialized websites or books. «The whole internet is full of English resources. Why should we only use what's written in the book?»

Lisa is clearly very comfortable with her abilities as a native English speaker at being able to convey the pedagogic objectives of these exercises with the class even if the content isn't derived from a specialized channel. 'What I do is that I search by topic.' She shows me the link that she's written on to the work-plan in Religion. There are two videos introducing Judaism. One through an historical account and another by account of it's central themes. 'In Religion it is easy to find well made and very informative videos that are on the right level. On the level 10 all videos are fine, but on the 8th grade I have to vary between English and Norwegian. I definitely have to spend more time explaining if it's in English. In Religion it's not a problem really, since there are a lot of good videos out there in Norwegian within narrower themes, but in English I have to be more careful in my search.

I ask her about the books they are using. She says that luckily they have been able to get hold of a new version of the English book in a different series. It more usable she says. I ask her what's different. She says 'The Searching book is simply outdated. One can find everything in English.' (She's asking what's the point?). I ask her again about what makes it outdated. 'Well it's the events and cultural references that the book covers. I don't think the students can relate to them in the same way any more. Then I guess that the (new) Enter series perhaps also reflect in a better way the way we practice (organize - 'driver') education today.' What do you mean I ask. 'It's (structure) is based on themes. And it might let the student's recognize parts of themselves in these in a better way.'

Lisa also shows me the new book that comes with this edition of the Gyldendal English book series. All the students now got access to a separate* digital version of a 'Basic Skills' book. The book is named after the new regulatory ... (?) documents in the Knowledge-Promise reform and it allows these skills to become thematics in its own right. 'Sometimes we cover these topics together in class. Otherwise they're there when they feel(*) like using them, like for example when they are writing an article.' It could be said to widen the specter of 'skills' relevant to the subject, by including more than simply language skills.
