
The cloud


*I have always throught that the largest failure of STS as well as innovation studies at UiO is not to recognise the difference between being a scholar and being a social scientist. It is much discussed in the literature; Latour points out that sociology should not look to the natural sciences for a model of evidence based research. However, he does not seem to identify as a scholar. On the contrary, he has identified as an ethnographer of the exotic realities which exist outside of the texts (leading up to the following text). However, it is safe to say that such a post- or anti-modern stance is somehow related to the nature of research in the electronic era. One which researchers denounce their responsiblity to produce any sort of historigraphic cronological order while engaging in social-historic research.*


**The Internet as Virtual Boundary in Education: governmentality in the cloud and the student subject**

The cloud(s) is(are) no one thing, nor is it any one place. Rather clouds binds together a range of spaces. Clouds flout somewhere between heaven and earth. To extend upon Latour's metaphor of these two spheres in his now classic book 'We were never modern', these are spaces of opposition; one of purity, and the other of hybridity. On the one hand the clear separations between chategories, and, on the other, the messy, complex and heterogenous realities of our world. To think of clouds as we observe them floating accross the sky these are objects used for reference, binding together weather formations, imaginations of space and place, and the rythms of plants, people, rivers etc. Clouds are external objects, shaping life on this planet, but generally in the background. Only the naive would think that 'heaven' litterally floats ontop of these hollow structures. Yet, as Latour points out, such linguistic culture is heavily endowed with meaning. More to the point though, the idea (or at least the term) of clouds today have an meaning extended far beyond the electrically charged particles floating around among the condensating gasses of above. Clouds today are also virtual. Meaning that sometime between the beginning of the millenia and the beginning of this decade it became normal to think of clouds also in terms of digitalized structures, somehow associated with the natural formations we all already know from out experience of being 'outside'.

Neither the author nor the reader chose the cloud as a metaphor for the 'insterests' that are associated with the term in the digital economy. All of us are assured to encounter these objects as we move about the modern landscape. Yet, it is not at once clear why anyone of us should concern ourselves with such questions inside the (relatively) well isolated offices, studyhalls and classrooms of our faculties. They are 'risky objects' as 'we' say in the language of Science and Technology Studies (STS) (aka Latour). Despite this, more and more people are spend serious effort expanding upon (perhaps) naive imaginations/conceptions of clouds in the pursuit of security. We pay attention to the forecasts of experts to better prepare for the way that the clouds affect us; either by updating software, passwords, or machines because of viruses and personal information circulating somewhere in cyberspace, as well as by updating the locations of a party, or the time of a flight because of some warm and cold winds circulating somewhere about the Atlantic occean. It is the nature of the cloud to be opaque, and most of us are relatively unaware of how the architecture of the modern environment is shaped by the way we talk about and act towards the internet as well, as the weather. 


-The cloud did not exist before the onstart of my narrative
-It took the position of cyber-space; perhaps with different (ideological) associations. No longer in opposition to the intranet and the 'local' computer network.

EdTech and the Cloud
-One cannot speak of an educational cloud in itself, although it is tempting. It is a service provided there, as elsewhere, to adopt the resources of the web in the fashion of business intelligence.
-To underestimate the importance of pedagogical history in the evolution of software is a huge mistake; think of Unix (and AT&T).
-Sharing 'in the cloud' is a principle that is done differently than 'on the web'. So while the LMS binds together hyperlinks and files in instructional records the cloud fascilitates such combinations in an dynamic fashion. 


For those of us that want to study the clouds (in what is known as cloud computing practice) the same epistemological issues arrise as for Latour(and the like) try to tackle in his effort to investigate modernity as an object of research within the scientific and political projects of this historical bloc (to borrow a term from Gramski). I call it an anthropological sensitivity. By that I do mean the gaize of an anthropologist, and the ability to study the *meaning* of these objects without a pre-defintion. 

However, I do not mean that one has to have a formal background in antropology. At least I don't. As my reference to Gramski would perhaps indicate even someone like myself, with a background in Politics and International Relations, have had to develop ways of dealing with the 'global', the temporality of the 'long now', and with 'totality'. Indeed all of us do, and that is why the 'ontological' has gained such an importance in much of the human sciences. Throughout the thesis the argument that the ontological is forming the basis for an emerging understanding between STS researchers, computer scientists, psychologists and pedagogues as well as politicians and bureaucrats will be developed. But for now it suffices to say that by antropological sensitivity I mean the product of the study of others, and their associations with the changing nature of media; the way knowledge is produced and distributed, or what Bowker calls information ifrastructure. 

When we discuss cloud computing we therefore have to understand that these are distributed processes. To study the boundary between the technical and the social in the cloud means both understanding the distributed, but highly material (with a confusing sense of density and scale), nature of cloud computing, and the cultural impact of knowing 'paper knowledge' in an digital age. These are the key ethnomethodological challenges that have shaped my research. 
- Mathew Hull points out that the.. 

