
This chapter introduces my empirical work and asks:
How is the professional requirements of teachers changed within the paradigm of mobile-education?

Sørensen (2009, p.137) describes how 'humans are enacted in spatial arrangements' and in a sense borrows a *first-person perspective* from critical approaches to the psychosocial (such as Dreier, 1993 and 1999) to reach beyond approaches to learning that view learning on par with teaching. These perspectives are however entirely different, and in the learner's perspective that which in cognitive approach was seen as non-personal, universal mechanisms, rather become activity; changes in personal participation in social context among non-isolated, socially embedded individual practices.
**How is participation in social context affected by social media ontology?**

At first that which is interactive is something like the smart-board.
Utgangspunktet mitt er bruken av smarttavler, eller Smart sine såkalte smartboards. Dette er kontroversielle innkjøp, både på grunn av pris og krav det setter på arbeidsprosessen. Utviklingen av samtavla bygger (kanskje indirekte) på forhandlingene som skjer innen dette interaktive rommet.
**Hardware investment or infrastructuring?**
>Content is being 'fixed' in new ways. I.e. standarder og formater.

The paradigm of mobile-education is a vague term and must be explained. Does such a paradigm exist? In this chapter I discuss the **question as it emerges among teachers and students**. I find that there is heightened awareness around the issue, but that it has to be studied through different sorts of associations attached to it than direct conversation. 

The question is again centered on the emerging role of the PC. Next I am thrown straight into a classroom in which it does seem to exist. In discussions with the class, and with Hanna, reality was harsh. The computerization of education was seen as intervening into the work of assessment. The 'virtual' presence of the teacher was in question, both for the students and Hanna. For the pupil-students there was questions being posed and anxieties were presented. Hanna did not address these anxieties directly, but neither did she have much to do with the new felt presence. 

The class is willing to discuss it with me, and I am taken back by the framing that spontaneously emerges. There is a contrast between the 'knowledge-objects behind glass' and the realities of what is known (and not) about the 'computerization of schools'. 
>the architecture and placement of (learning) resources (like uploading a file).
These were not so much opinions and thought experiments as much as they are discussions. My study is experienced as scientific and definitively experimental. Not theoretical or oriented towards a 'Subject' (fag; i.e. internet genres), but as subjects.
**It is learning as a placed resource**

In the science classroom already I ask: what about if we imagine the world 'out there' (the digital) to be more concrete, and much more present than what could be otherwise presumed? What if knowledge is underpinned by greater swaths of presence than presumed, in the classroom? What if studying the 's'ubjects of situation makes a difference to our organizational theory of education and schools? 
-The group collectively associate with the work of organizing the new database. Participation is mandatory, yet individualized. 
**A new 'positive' form of individualization? From freedom/control of content to the freedom of.. activity/completion**
>Perhaps its checked, perhaps not.










##The mobility question
I wanted to study the role of the computer through a comparison between the PC and tablets, but instead I was rather oriented back towards the evolution of the LMS.

*17.08.17* Asking how mobile technology translated into the classroom means turning the question of how classrooms are imagined around. The work of imagining is what is considered the creative act, and it is considered more democratic or more individualized, depending on the arenas. Imagining the classroom pre-posits questions of how 'knowledge-objects' are brought into the classroom. These could be experiences (the feelings of 'others'), culture (cultural-capital as self-transformation) or Steiner pedagogy. I ask how one perform a different kind of pedagogy, as I am asking how digital-competence 'emerge'.





##17.08.17
From the beginning I discuss the way I encountered the organizational and empirical challenges of individualization in the school. I come to discuss the 'systemness' that the shift towards automus bits represents.
Trying to observe how teachers work 'for' learning I encounter many efforts to individualize through separation rather than 'one-to-many' group encounters. Organizing these groups is a complex task. The mediation of associations of the political economy (attention, group dynamics) is done by different media. How these media are institutionalized has (traditionally) been of keen interest to STS researchers. This could be considered governance and technologies of the self, and when doing this I get into questions of didactics as creativity.

There is more than individualizing tendencies.. Or, individualization is done among groups and networks. It is done differently. Creativity is about more than individualization. Care is being taken for technoscience as it appears in several parts of the organization. *Hanna's class was caring for the local network and organization - discussing administrative challenges with the system*

They are doing so on their computers, yet their computers are separate from the media 'out-there' (regional). The 'search' (not search result) that was attached to the classroom's research ethic intervened into the alliances in the classroom.
