
Ch. 2 asks what the ecosystem and spatial metaphor is used for. How it is used. Why do I come back to the bus ride and the rooms? Why is it used the literature? And what does it have to do with deep learning?

What does it mean to use these metaphors? In light of 'm'edia studies I am inspired to use the discussion around the cultural appropriation of 'collective calculative devices' - of self-representation - in representational Media. When someone goes around taking photos of black people at the opening of 'freshers week' at UiO one is tempted to ask how representational these views are. This is the kind of 'observer' analysis that Rose has advocated. A kind of feminist approach that challenges the harmony of facts portayed in the books - opening up the possibility of a loss of relevance in the level of granuality I studied. 


##Governance

The article about the implementation of 'behavioral policy' points out that the state use recommendations for how to raise the achievements of schools. **These refer to accountancy practices of care practitionars, which is given value by activity-data**

Governance is performed differently by the state. A policy recommendation that I recognize in the 'behavior policy' article is that of "responding with a multi layered, ‘whole school’ approach" (p.3). The 'whole school approach' becomes effective when considering behavior specifically as guide lines towards 'test' achievement. It does not guide the sort of behavior preferred by 'good students' (nonparticular about behavior - **anti-normative**). It operates at an institutional level, and as such can be thought to intervene in the games played out among teacher-student relations (multiple). Behavior is problematized and 'liberalized' by acting upon and operating within schools - what a school is. An ensamble of initiatives are enacted through groups of diverse social actors and contexts (locations).

'Raising achievement standards' talks my experience of seeing Thomas Dybdal's lecture the year that I came back to work at Tranby in 2014. The experience was one in which we were confronted with the results, distilled from large quantities of data and summed up in some numbers and charts. Not only were we sensitized to the share size of these scientific endeavors, I was also heavily impressed by the responsibility we all had for conveying the facts on to the children. Not only did we need to implement these facts in our strategy, we needed to make them clear to them who was most readily affected by them - the subject/objects of the study.

-At the time that we attended the lecture the school was still also working with implementing the evaluation for learning scheme, in which we all learned about making 'goals' an inherent part of our teaching. Showing them what it was they needed to learn, but also discussing the ethics behind why such goals were important. We were perhaps to remember these facts about behavior.

It contrasted with the kinds of evidence put forth by Simon, which advocated a different kind of ethics. One in which responsibility lay with the mediation of trueness as experienced in the activity themselves and of accountable organizement within the group that you controlled. 

On the one hand, making you accountable to the education system(?). On the other, making you accountable to ...?
>Empirical ethics

 


##The consequences of distance-organizement(labor)
The fact that teachers try to work with (translate) mobile/tele technologies means that they are stuck with some of the challenges of 'lean' administrations. In a networked/market oriented environment the qualifications that are valued in the organization of project-administrations (meetings) could seem random. The forms of presence that are observed at the meetings are not at once natural. They take specific forms.

The virtual government, that which simultaneously organizes the municipality's strategy (reform) and the (media)market, are non-specific in the networking of networks. Not much research is conducted, and I met enthusiasm around the question of someone asking whether the systems established the desired effects. Quality was a guiding prinsiple. 
