#Test title: 'Translating education into the cloud: research performativity within high-tech sociology of education'

*Is 'research' survailled or not?

##Reflection around new test title:
The title 'Knowledge without boundaries' speaks to several topics that I cover in this thesis
-there is something like a new paradigm, defined by new ways of establishing boundless knowledge.
-semantics is a way of breaking with predefined categorizations
-life long learning suggests a paradigm of learning that does not pre-suppose (the same) divisions of labor
**Which is why Are commented on the failure to make 'estethic subjects' accountable?**
-cloud technologies inhabit the implications of location


Over the course of the previous chapters I will have shown that research is being done at every level of the school system.
I show that:
-'research' needs to be separated to remain stable and distinct (fixed: defining when learning happens).
-(info)design is emerging as a key component of the apparatus and 'political economic' interventions linked to internet research
> 'learning technologies' (this way) is a further translation of technologies (already the stabilized products of science)
-The politics within the design becomes based on how media is consumed (dispersed). The politics comes from the standards (tech) that regulate the information infrastructure (my original interest) and consumption is based on dispersed relations and (multiple) networks.
-'Nature' is separated and contained as ecologies, integrating the networked objects of modern (participatory) management (disguised in software).
>Dynamic/virtual(reality) accounting practice.

-In the Scandinavian literature the 'user' emerges within writing about networks, like the LMS, Kahoot research or Samtavla. Research shows efforts at 'ordering' the ecologies of knowledge management differently.
-While the American teacher spend more time 'being' mobile, the Norwegian teacher spends more time producing mobility. The Norwegian teacher deals with a lot of heterogeneity within the classroom, causing standardization in the surrounding organization. Children's rights gain a great deal of attention.

So how does the surrounding organization institutionalize such heterogeneity? The institutionalization question is fundamental in my research. Now I also see that it naturally brings about questions about the reform of the school system. Heterogeneity used to be reflected in the local differentiated choices of schools. Less agency is given to 'schools' as independent actors now, and equity becomes the result of experties - external networks.

**19.10.17: I now see institutionalization as the minimization of difference among.. 4.12.17: ...the minimalization difference as functions of information technologies. 
